
To the Honorable Knight Sir H. Goodere.

SIR,
IF I would go out of my way for excuses, or if I did not go out of my way from them; I might avoid writing now because I cannot chuse but know, that you have in this town abler servants, and better under∣standing the persons and passages of this Court. But my hope is not in the applica∣tion of other mens merits, to me however abundant. Besides, this town hath since our comming hither, afforded enough for all to say. That which was done here the 25 of March, and which was so long called a
Page  128
publication of the marriages, was no o∣therwise publique then that the Spa. Ambas∣sador, having that day an audience delive∣red to the Queen that his Master was well pleased with all those particulars which had been formerly treated. And the French Am∣bassador in Spain is said to have had in∣struction, to do the same office in that Court, the same day. Since that, that is to say, these 4 last days, it hath been solemni∣zed with more outward bravery then this Court is remembred to have appeared in. The main bravery was the number of horses which were above 800 Caparazond. Before the daies, the town was full of the 5 Challengers cartells, full of Rodomonta∣des: but in the execution, there were no personall reencounters, nor other triall of any ability, then running at the Quintain, and the Ring. Other particulars of this, you cannot chuse but hear too much, since at this time there cometoyouso many French men. But lest you should beleeve too much, I presentyou these 2 precautions, that for their
Page  129
Gendarmery, there was no other trial then I told you; & for their bravery, no true stuffe. You must of necessity have heard often of a Book written against the Popes juris∣diction, about three moneths since, by one Richer, a Dr and Syndique of the Sorbonists, which Book hath now been censured by an assembly of the Clergie of this Archbi∣shoprick, promoved with so much dili∣gence by the Cardinall Peroun, that for this businesse he hath intermitted his replie to the Kings answer, which now he retires to intend seriously: I have not yet had the ho∣nour to kisse his Graces hand, though I have received some half-invitations to do it. Richer was first accused to the Parlia∣ment, but when it was there required of his delators to insist upon some propositi∣ons in his Book, which were either against Scripture, or the Gallican Church, they de∣sisted in that pursuit. But in the censure which the Clergie hath made, though it be full of modifications and reservations of the rights of the King, and the Gallican
Page  130
Churches, there is this iniquitie, that being to be published by commandement of the Assembly, in all the Churches of Paris, which is within that Diocese, and almost all the Curates of the Parishes of Paris be∣ing Sorbonists, there is by this means a strong party of the Sorbonists themselves raised against Richer; yet against this cen∣sure, and against three or four which have opposed Richer in print, he meditates an an∣swer. Before it should come forth I desired to speak with him, for I had said to some of the Sorbonist of his party, that there was no proposition in his Book, which I could not shew in Catholique authors of 300 years: I had from him an assignation to meet, and at the hour he sent me his excuse, which was, that he had been traduced to have had conference with the Ambassadors of England, and the States, and with the D. of Bovillon, and that he had accepted a pen∣sion of the King of England; and with all, that it had been very well testified to him that day, that the Jesuits had offered to cor∣rupt
Page  131
men with rewards to kill him. Which I doubt not but he apprehended for true, because a messenger whom I sent to fixe another time of meeting with him, found him in an extreme trembling, and irreso∣lutions: so that I had no more, but an in∣treaty to forbear comming to his house, or drawing him out of it, till it might be without danger or observation. They of the Religion held a Synod at this time in this Town, in which the principall busi∣nesse is to rectifie, or at least to mature, against their Provinciall Synod, which shall be held in May, certain opinions of Ti∣lenus a Divine of Sedan, with which the Churches of France are scandalized. The chief point is, Whether our salvation be to be attributed to the passive merit of Christ, which is his death, or to his active also, which is his fulfilling of the Law. But I doubt not but that will be well composed, if Tilenus who is here in person with two other assistants, bring any disposition to submit himself to the Synod, and not onely
Page  132
to dispute. I doe (I thank God) naturally and heartily abhorre all schism in Religion so much, as, I protest, I am sorry to finde this appearance of schism amongst our ad∣versaries the Sorbonists; for I had rather they had held together, to have made a head against the usurpations of the Ro. Church, then that their disuniting should so enfeeble them, as that the Parliament should be left alone to stand against those tyrannies. Sir, you will pardon my extravagancies in these relations. I look upon nothing so intentive∣ly as these things, nor fals there any thing within my knowledge, which I would conceal from you. Though it concern not you to know it, yet me thinks it concerns me to tell it. That Cook of which you writ to me, is come hither, and hath brought me other Letters, but not those of which you writ to me, which pacquet, he saies, you received again of him; whether by his fals∣hood, or by your diligence in seeking a worthier messenger, I know not; but I am sure I never lost any thing with more sor∣row,
Page  133
because I am thereby left still in uncer∣tainties, and irresolutions, of that which I desire much to know in womens busines∣ses. If you write this way any more, chuse no other means, then by Mr Bruer at the Queens Arms a Mercer in Cheapside: he shall alwaies know where we are, and we are yet in a purpose to go from hence with∣in a fortnight, and dispose our selves to be at Frankford the 25 of May, when the electi∣on of the Emperor shall be there. Though I be meerly passive in all this pilgrimage, yet I shall be willing to advance that de∣sign; because upon my promise that I would doe so, Sir Rob. Rich gave me his, that he would divert from his way to Italy so much, as to be there then. When I came to this Town I found Mr Matthew, diligent to finde a means to write to you; so that at this time, when there go so many, I cannot doubt but he provides himself, therefore I did not ask his commandement, nor offer him the service of this Pacquet. Sir, you are not evener to your self, in your most
Page  134
generall wishes of your own good, then I am in my particular, of which none rises in me, that is not bent upon your enjoying of peace and reposednesse in your fortunes, in your affections, and in your conscience; more then which I know not how to wish to

Your very affectionate servant and lover
J. Donne.
Paris the 9 Apr. 1612. here.

