
To Sir 

SIR,
THis  morning, which hath brought me to  presents me with all your Letters. Me thought it was a rent day, I mean such as yours, and not as mine; and yet such too, when I conside∣red how much I ought you for them, how good a mother, how fertill and abundant the understanding is, if she have a good father; and how well friendship performs that office. For that which is denied in other generations is done in this of yours: for here is superfeta∣tion, childe upon childe, and that which is more strange, twins at a latter conception. If in my second religion, friendship, I had a conscience, either  to mistake good and bad and indifferent, or  to be ravished by others opinions or examples, or  to adhere to neither part, or 
to encline to one, but upon reasons light in themselves, or indiscussed in me, (which are almost all the diseases of consci∣ence) I might mistake your often, long, and busie Letters, and fear you did but intreat me to have mercy upon you and spare you; for you know our Court took the resoluti∣on, that it was the best way to dispatch the French Prince back again quickly, to re∣ceive him solemnly, ceremoniously, and ex∣pensively, when he hoped a domestique and durable entertainment. I never meant to excell you in weight nor price, but in number and bulk I thought I might, be∣cause he may cast up a greater summe who hath but forty small monies, then he with twenty Portuguesses. The memory of friends, (I mean onely for Letters) neither enters ordinarily into busied men, because they are ever emploied within, nor into men of pleasure, because they are never at home. For these wishes therefore which you won out of your pleasure and recreati∣on, you were as excusable to me if you

writ seldome, as Sir  is, under the oppression of businesse, or the necessity of seeming so; or more then he, because I hope you have both pleasure and businesse: onely to me, who have neither, this omis∣sion were sinne; for though writing be not of the precepts of friendship, but of the counsels, yet, as in some cases to some men counsels become precepts, and though not immediately from God, yet very roundly and quickly from his Church, (as selling and dividing goods in the first time, conti∣nence in the Romane Church, and order and decencie in ours) so to me who can do nothing else, it seems to binde my consci∣ence to write; and it is sinne to doe against the conscience, though that erre. Yet no mans Letters might be better wanted then mine, since my whole Letter is nothing else but a confession that I should and would write. I owed you a Letter in verse before by mine own promise, and now that you think that you have hedged in that debt by a greater by your Letter in verse, I

think it now most seasonable and fashio∣nable for me to break. At least, to write presently, were to accuse my self of not ha∣ving read yours so often as such a Letter deserves from you to me. To make my debt greater (for such is the desire of all, who cannot or mean not to pay) I pray read these two problemes: for such light flashes as these have been my hawkings in my sorry journies. I accompany them with another ragge of verses, worthy of that name for the smalnesse, and age, for it hath long lien among my other papers, and laughs at them that have adventured to you: for I think till now you saw it not, and neither you, nor it should repent it. Sir, if I were any thing, my love to you might multiply it, and dignifie it: But in∣finite nothings are but one such; yet since even Chymera's have some name and titles, I am also
Yours.
