
To Sir H. R.

IF a whole year be but Annus ab Annulo, because it returnes into it self, what Annu∣lulus shall be diminutive enough, to express our weekly revolutions? In chaines the least linkes have most curiosity, but that can be no emblem of us: but they have also the most strength, and that may. The first sphere onely which is resisted by nothing, absolves his course every day; and so doth true friendship well placed, often iterate in act
Page  27
or purpose, the same offices. But as the lower spheres, subject to the violence of that, and yet naturally encouraged to a re∣luctation against it, have therefore many distractions, and eccentricities, and some trepidations, and so return but lamely, and lately to the same place, and office: so that friendship which is not moved primarily by the proper intelligence, discretion, and about the naturall center, vertue, doth per∣chance sometimes, some things, somewhat like true friendship; but hath many devia∣tions, which are strayings into new loves, (not of other men; for that is proper to true wise friendship, which is not a mar∣ring; but of other things) and hath such trepidations as keep it from shewing it self, where great persons do not love; and it re∣turns to the true first station and place of friendship planetarily, which is uncertain∣ly and seldome. I have ever seen in London and our Court, as some colours, and habits, and continuances, and motions, and phra∣ses, and accents, and songs, so friends in
Page  28
fashion and in season: and I have seen them as sodainly abandoned altogether, though I see no change in them, nor know more why they were left, then why they were chosen. To do things by example, and upon confidence of anothers judgment may be some kinde of a second wisdome; but it is but writing by a copy: or indeed it is the hardest of all, and the issue of the first wisdome, for I cannot know that this ex∣ample should be followed, except I knew that it is good, and so I judge my Judge. Our assent therefore, and arrest, must be upon things, not persons. And when we are sure we are in the right way, for great persons, we may be glad of their company, if they go our way; we may for them change our place, but not our end, nor our way, if there be but one, us in Religion. In persevering in it, it concerns as much what our companions be, but very much what our friends. In which I know I speak not dangerously nor mis-appliably to you, as though I averted you from any of those
Page  29
friends, who are of other impressions then you or I in some great circumstances of Re∣ligion. You know I never fettered nor im∣prisoned the word Religion; not straight∣ning it Frierly, ad Religiones factitias, (as the Romans call well their orders of Religi∣on) nor immuring it in a Rome, or a Wittemberg, or a Geneva; they are all virtuall beams of one Sun, and wheresoever they finde clay hearts, they harden them, and moulder them into dust; and they entender and mollifie waxen. They are not so con∣trary as the North and South Poles; and that they are connaturall pieces of one cir∣cle. Religion is Christianity, which being too spirituall to be seen by us, doth there∣fore take an apparent body of good life and works, so salvation requires an honest Christian. These are the two Elements, and he which elemented from these, hath the complexion of a good man, and a fit friend. The diseases are, too much intenti∣on into indiscreet zeal, and too much remis∣nesse and negligence by giving scandall: for
Page  30
our condition and state in this, is as infirm as in our bodies; where physitians consi∣der only two degrees; sicknesse, and neu∣trality; for there is no health in us. This, Sir, I use to say to you, rather to have so good a witnesse and corrector of my medi∣tations, then to advise; and yet to do that too, since it is pardonable in a friend: Not to slack you towards those friends which are religious in other clothes then we; (for Amici vitia si feras facis tua, is true of such faults) but to keep you awake against such as the place where you must live will of∣ten obtrude, which are not onely naked, without any fashion of such garments, but have neither the body of Religion, which is morall honesty, and sociable faithfulness, nor the soul, Christianity. I know not how this paper scaped last week which I send now; I was so sure that I enwrapped it then, that I should be so still, but that I had but one copy; forgive it as you use to do. From Micham in as much haste, and with as ill Pen and Inke, as the letter can accuse me
Page  31
of; but with the last and the next weeks heart and affection.
Yours very truely and affectionately
J. Donne.
