
To Sir 

SIR,
THis first of  I received yours of 21 of  which being two days after the ordinary  day, I could do no more, but seal this letter to be sent to you next Tuesday, because I foresee that I shall not then be in town. Whatsoever I should write now, of any passages of these days, would lose the verdure before the letter came to you, only give me leave to tell you that I need none of those excuses, which you have made to your self in my behalfe, for my not writing. For your son in law came to me, so near the time of his going a∣way, as it had been impossible to have re∣covered him with a letter at so farre a di∣stance, as he was lodged. And my L.  messenger received that answer, which, I hope, before this time, you know to be true, that I had sent the day before, by the infallible carrier of  The Empe∣rours death may somewhat shorten our

way; for I disoern now no reason of going to  but I beleeve it wil extēd our busines; so that I promise my self no speedier return by that. If I write no letters into  out of these parts; I cannot be without your pardon, if I write not to you, but if I write to any and leave you out, lay all the faults which you have ever pardonedin me, to my charge again. I foresee some reasons, which may make me forbeare; but no flacknesse of mine own, shall. Sir, if I have no more the commodity of writing to you here in  (as, we may be gon before next Tuesday) I tell you, in this departing from you, with the same truth and earnest∣nesse as I would be beleeved to speake in my last departing, and transmigration from the whole world, that I leave not be∣hinde me a heart, better affected to you, nor more devoted to your service, then I carry with me. Almighty God blesse you, with such a reparation in your health, such an establishment in your estate, such a com∣fort in your children, such a peace in your

conscience, and such a true cheerfulnesse in your heart, as may be strong seales to you, of his eternall gracious purpose upon you. This morning I spend in surveying and emptying my Cabinet of Letters; and at the top of all I light upon this Letter lately received, which I was loth to bury. I chose to send it you, to mine own condemnati∣on; because a man so busie as he is, de∣scending to this expressing of himself in verse, I am inexcusable towards you, for disobeying a commandement of yours, of that kinde; but I relie upon the generall, that I am sure you are sure, that I never re∣fuse any thing for lazinesse, nor morosity, and therefore make some other excuse for me. You have beenso long used to my hand that I stand not to excuse the hasty ragged∣nesse of this Letter. The very ilnesse of the writing, is a good argument that I forced a time, in the fulnesse of businesse, to kisse your hand, and to present my thanks as for all your favours, and benefits, so principal∣ly for keeping me alive in the memory of

the noblest Countesse, whose commande∣ment, if it had been her Laps pleasure to have any thing said or done in her service, at  I should have been glad to have received. Sir, God blesse you,  and

Your very true and affectionate servant in Chr. fes.
J. Donne.
4. Apr. 1619.

