
To the Honourable L. the Lady  upon the death of her Husband.
MADAME,
THose things which God dissolves at once, as he shall do the Sun, and Moon, and those bodies at the last confla∣gration, he never intends to reunite again; but in those things, which he takes in pieces, as he doth man, and wife, in these divorces, by death, and in single persons, by the divorce of body and soul, God hath another purpose to make them up again. That piece which he takes to himself, is pre∣sently cast in a mould, and in an instant made fit for his use; for heaven is not a place of a proficiency, but of present per∣fection. That piece which he leaves behinde in this world, by the death of a part thereof, growes fitter and fitter for him, by the good use of his corrections, and the intire conformity to his will. Nothing dispropor∣tions us, nor makes us so uncapable of be∣ing reunited to those whom we loved here,

as murmuring, or not advancing the good∣ness of him, who hath removed them from hence. We would wonder, to see a man, who in a wood were left to his liberty, to fell what trees he would, take onely the crooked, and leave the streightest trees; but that man hath perchance a ship to build, and not a house, and so hath use of that kinde of timber: let not us, who know that in Gods house there are many Mansi∣ons, but yet have no modell, no designe of the forme of that building, wonder at his taking in of his materialls, why he takes the young, and leaves the old, or why the sickly overlive those, that had better health. We are not bound to think that souls de∣parted, have devested all affections towards them, whom they left here; but we are bound to think, that for all their loves they would not be here again: Then is the will of God done in Earth, as it is in Heaven, when we neither pretermit his actions, nor resist them; neither pass them over in an inconsideration, as though God had no

hand in them, nor go about to take them out of his hands, as though we could direct him to do them better. As Gods Scriptures are his will, so his actions are his will; both are Testaments, because they testifie his minde to us. It is not lawfull to adde a scedule to either of his wills: as they do ill, who adde to his written will, the Scri∣ptures, a scedule of Apcryphall books: so do they also, who to his other will, his ma∣nifested actions, adde Apocryphall condi∣tions, and a scedule of such limitations as these, If God would have stayed thus long, or, If God would have proceeded thus long, or, If God would have proceeded in this or this manner, I could have born it. To say that our afflictions are greater then we can bear, is so near to despairing, as that the same words express both; for when we consider  words in that originall tongue in which God spake, we cannot tell whether the words be, My punishment is greater then can be born; or, My sin is grea∣ter then can be forgiven. But Madame, you who willingly sacrificed your self to God,

in your obedience to him, in your own sickness, cannot be doubted to dispute with him, about any part of you, which he shall be pleased to require at your hands. The dif∣ference is great in the loss, of an arme, or a head; of a child, or a husband: but to them, who are incorporated into Christ, their head, there can be no beheading; upon you, who are a member of the spouse of Christ the Church, there can fall no wi∣dowhead, nor orphanage upon those chil∣dren, to whom God is father. I have not another office by your husbands death; for I was your Chaplaine before, in my daily prayers; but I shall inlarge that office with other Collects, then before, that God will continue to you, that peace which you have ever had in him, and send you quiet, and peaceable dispositions in all them with whom you shall have any thing to do, in your temporall estate and matters of this world. 

Your Ladiships very humble and thankfull servant in Christ Jesus
J. Donne.
At my poor house at S. 26. Octob. 1624.

