
Page  251To your selfe.
SIR,
AGE becomes nothing better then Friendship; therefore your Letters, which are ever good effects of friendship, delight to be old before I receive them: for it is but a fortnight since those Letters which you sent by Captain Peter found me at Spâ; presently upon the receit, I adven∣tured by your leave to bestow the first mi∣nutes upon this Letter to your faire Noble Sister; And because I found no voice at Spâ of any Messenger, I respited my Wri∣ting to you, till I came thus much nearer. Upon the way hither, another Letter from you overtooke me, which by my L. Chan∣dos love to me for your sake, was sent after me to Mastricht: He came to Spâ within two houres after I went away; which I tell you to let you see, that my For∣tune hath still that spitefull constancy, to bring me near my desires, and intercept me.
Page  252
If I should write to you any newes from this place, I should forestall mine owne Market, by telling you beforehand that which must make me acceptable to you at my comming. I shall sneake into London, about the end of August. In my remotest di∣stances I did not more need your Letters then I shall then. Therefore if you shall not be then in London, I beseech you to think mee at Constantinople, and write one large Letter to be left at my Ladie Bartlets my lodging; for I shall come in extreame darknesse and ignorance, except you give me light. If Sir John Brooke be within your reach, present my humble service and thankfulnesse to him; if he be not, I am glad, that to my Conscience, which is a thousand witnesses, I have added you for one more, that I came as near as I could to doe it. I shall run so fast from this place, through Antwerpe, and some parts of Hol∣land, that all that love which you could perchance be content to expresse by Let∣ters if I lay still, may be more thriftily be∣stowed
Page  253
upon that one Letter, which is by your favour, to meet me, and to welcome to London
Your unworthy, but very true Friend,
J. Donne.
