
To the worthiest Knight Sir 

SIR,
OUr blessed Saviour, who abounds in power and goodnesse towards us all, blesse you, and your family, with blessings proportioned to his ends in you all, and blesse you with the testimony of a rectified conscience, of having discharged all the of∣fices of a father, towards your discreet and worthy daughters, and blesse them with a satisfaction, and quiescence, and more, with a complacency and a joy, in good ends, and ways towards them,  Your man brought me your Letter of the 8 of  this 21 of the same, to  and gives me the largenesse, till friday to send a letter to  house. There can scarce be any peece of that, or of those things whereof you require light from me, that is not come to your knowledge, by some clearer way, between the time of your Letter, and this. Besides the report of my death, hath thus much of truth in it, that though I be

not dead, yet I am buried within a few weeks after I immured my self in this house, the infection strook into the town, into so many houses, as that it became ill manners, to make any visits. Therefore I never went to  nor  nor  nor to the Court, since the Court came into these quarters, nor am yet come to  therefore I am little able to give you account of high stages. Perchance you look not so low, as our ordinary Gazetta, and that tells us, (with a second assurance) that the D. of  is dead of an Ague. My L. of  even upon the day, when he should have been installed with his six fellowes, fell sick at  and at Court (which does not exalt all men) his Fever was exalted to the plague; but he is in good convalescence. Of the Navy I hear of no great lim come back yet, but my L. of  something of the disappointing of the designe they had, is imputed to some diffe∣rence, in point of command, between him and the Mr. of the Ordinance, my L. of 
but as yet, there is little manifested. Already is issued a Proclamation, that there be no disbanding of the Souldiers, upon their landing, in what part soever, and that his Majesty hath present imployment for them. What the main busines at  hath been, I know nothing; but I hear, that their offer of pawning of Jewells to a very very great value, to the States or private men, hath found no acceptance, at least found no money. Occasionally I heard from the  that the Queen having taken into her care, the promoving and advancing of some particular mens businesses, by way of recommendations to the Duke, expressed her self very royally, in your behalf. This I tell you not, as though you knew it not, but because I had the fortune to see it in a Letter of the simple Gentlewoman, from thence; by which name, if you know her not, I have omitted heretofore to tell you a good tale. They continue at Court, in the resolution of the Queen pastorall; when  loved gamboils, you loved the

Court; perchance you may doubt whether you be a thorough Courtier, if you come not up to see this, The Queen a Shepper∣desse: but I speak not this, by way of coun∣sail, to draw you up, it is not only  but  to call you hither, but upon fair appearances of usefull commings. Mr  is here at the receipt of your letter, and with his ser∣vice to you, tells you that all of  house are well. I reserve not the mention of my Lady  to the end of my Letter, as grains to make the gold weight, but as tincture to make the better gold, when you finde room to intrude so poor and imper∣tinent a name, as mine is, in her presence. I beseech you, let her Lad: know, that she hath sowed her favours towards me, in such a ground, that if I be grown better (as I hope I am) her favours are grown with me, and though they were great when she conferred them, yet, (if I mend every day) they in∣crease in me every day, and therefore every day multiply my thankfulnesse towards

her Ladiship: say what you will (if you like not this expression) that may make her Ladiship know, that I shall never let fall the memory, nor the just valuation of her noble favours to me, nor leave them unrequited in my Exchequer, which is, the blessings of God upon my prayers. If I should write another sheet, I should be able to serve your curiosity no more of Dukes nor LL. nor Courts, and this half line serves to tell you, that I am truly
Your poor friend and humble servant in Chr. fes.
J. Donne.
