
SIR,
IT is one ill Affection of a desperate debtor, that he dares not come to an ac∣count, nor take knowledge how much he owes; this makes me that I dare not tell you how manie letters I have received from you since I came to this Towne; I had three the first by the Cooke, who brought none but yours, nor ever came to me, to let me know what became of the rest: the two o∣ther of the 7. and 8. of  came in a let∣ter which Sir  writ to me from
 there is not a size of paper in the Palace, large enough to tell you how much I esteeme my selfe honoured in your remembrances; nor strong enough to wrap up a heart so ful of good affections towards you, as mine is. When any thing passes be∣tween Sir  and you, tell him I am not the lesse his Servant, for not saying so by often letters: for by my troth, I am that so much as he could desire I should be, when he began to love me. Sir  businesse, and perchance sadnesse for∣bid me writing now. I have written to him (whilest I lived in darknesse, whether my Letters came to you or no) by another way; and if my poore Letters were any degree of service, I should doe it often, and rather be mine own Post, then leave any thing undone, to which he would give such an interpretation, as that it were an Argument of my Devotion to him. For my purpose of proceeding in the profession of the Law, so far as to a Title, you may be pleased to correct that imagination where you finde

it. I ever thought the study of it my best entertainment and pastime, but I have no ambition, nor design upon the Stile. Of my Anniversaries the fault which I acknow∣ledge in my selfe, is to have descended to print any thing in Verse, which though it have excuse, even in our times, by example of men, which one would thinke should as little have done it, as I; yet I confesse I wonder how I declined to it, and doe not pardon my self. But for the other part of the imputation, of having said so much, my de∣fence is, that my purpose was to say as well as I could: for since I never saw the Gentle∣woman, I cannot be understood to have bound my selfe to have spoken just Truth: but I would not be thought to have gone about to praise any bodie in rime, except I tooke such a Person, as might be capable of all that I could say. If any of those La∣dies think that Mistris  was not so, let that Ladie make her selfe fit for all those praises in the Booke, and it shall be hers. Nothing is farther from colour or

ground of Truth, then that which you write of Sir  going to Masse. No man of our Nation hath been more forward to apply himselfe to the Church of the Religion where he hath come, nor to relieve their wants, where that Demon∣stration hath beene needfull. I know not yet whether Sir  purpose of be∣ing very shortly here, be not a just reason to make me forbear writing to him. I am sure that I would fainest do that in writing or abstaining which should be most accep∣table to him. It were in vain to put into this letter any relation of the Magnificence which have been here at publication of these marriages; for at this time there come into  so many  as I am sure you shall heare all at least. If they speak not of above eight hundred horse well ca∣parosond, you may believe it: and you may believe, that no Court in Christen∣dome had beene able to have appeared so brave in that kinde. But if they tell you of any other stuffe, then Copper, or any other

exercise of armes then running at the Quin∣tain, and the Ring, you may be bold to say  Sir, this messenger makes so much haste that I cry you mercy for spending any time of this Letter, in other imployment, then thanking you for yours, and promising you more before my remove from hence. I pray venture no Letter to me by any other way then M.  at the Queens Armes a Mercer in  who is always like to know where we are; And make me by loving me still, worthy to be
Your friend and servant
J. Donne.
