
To my Lord 

SIR,
I Am near the execution of that purpose for  though I may have other ends, yet if it do but keep me awake, it recom∣penses

me well. I am now in the after∣noon of my life, and then it is unwhole∣some to sleep. It is ill to look back, or give over in a course; but worse never to set out. I speake to you at this time of depar∣ting, as I should do at my last upon my death-bed; and I desire to deliver into your hands a heart and affections, as inno∣cent towards you, as I shall to deliver my soul into Gods hands then. I say not this out of diffidence, as though you doubted it, or that this should look like such an excuse, as implyed an accusation; but because my fortune hath burdened you so, as I could not rectifie it before my going, my consci∣ence and interpretation (severer I hope then yours towards my self) calls that a kinde of demerit, but God who hath not only af∣forded us a way to be delivered from our great many debts, contracted by our Exe∣cutorship to  but also another for our particular debts after, hath not left poor men unprovided, for discharge of morall and civill debts; in which, acknowledge∣ment,

and thankfulnesse is the same, as re∣pentance and contrition is in spiritual debts: and though the value and dignity of all these be not perchance in the things, but in the acceptation, yet I cannot doubt of it, either in God, or you. But Sir, because there is some degree of thankfulnesse in asking more (for that confesses all former obligations, and a desire to be still in the same dependency) I must intreat you to continue that wherein you have most ex∣pressed your love to me, which is, to main∣tain me in the same room in my Lady  opinion, in the which you placed me. I prosesse to you that I am too much bound to her, for expressing every way her care of my fortune, that I am weary before she is; and out of a loathnesse, that so good works should be bestowed upon so illstuffe, or that somuchill fortune should be mingled with hers, as that she should misse any thing that she desired, though it were but for me; I am willing to depart from farther exerci∣sing her indevours in that kinde. I shall be

bold to deliver my poor Letters to her La∣diships hands, through yours, whilest I am abroad 'though I shall ever account my self at home, whilest I am in your me∣mory.
Your affectionate servant and lover
J. Donne.
