
To the Honourable Knight Sir G. P.

SIR,
I Would have intermitted this week with∣out writing, if I had not found the name of my Lady Huntington in your Letter. The devotion which I owe, and (in good faith) pay in my best prayers for her good, in all kinde awakens me to present my humble thanks for this, that her Ladiship retains my name in her memory: she never laid obligation upon any man, readier to ex∣presse his acknowledgement of them, to any servant of her servants; I am bound to say much of this, for your indemnity; because though I had a little preparation to her knowledge in the house where I served
Page  185
at first, yet, I think, she took her characters of me, from you: And, at what time soe∣ver she thought best of me in her life, I am better then that, for my goodnesse is my thankfulnesse, and I am every day fuller of that then before, to her Lap. I say nothing to you of forein names in this Letter, be∣cause your son Sir Francis is here. For that which you write concerning your son, I onely gave my man Martin in charge, to use his interest in the Keeper, that your son should fall under no wants there, which it seems your son discharged, for I hear not of them. For other trifles, I bad my man let him have whatsoever he asked, so, as it might seem to come from him, and not me; and laying that look upon it, it came to almost nothing. Tell both your daugh∣ters a peece of a storie of my Con. which may accustome them to endure disappoint∣ments in this world: An honourable per∣son (whose name I give you in a schedule to burn, lest this Letter should be mis-laid) had an intention to give her one of his sons,
Page  186
and had told it me, and would have been content to accept what I, by my friends, could have begged for her; but he intended that son to my Profession, and had provi∣ded him already 300l a year, of his own gift in Church livings, and hath estated 300l more of inheritance for their children: and now the youth, (who yet knows no∣thing of his fathers intention nor mine) flies from his resolutions for that Calling, and importunes his Father to let him tra∣vell. The girle knows not her losse, for I never told her of it: but truly, it is a great disappointment to me. More then these, Sir, we must all suffer, in our way to hea∣ven, where, I hope you and all yours shall meet

Your poor friend, and affectionate servant
J. Donne.
18 Octob. 1622.

