
Page  89To your selfe.
SIR,
IF this Letter finde you in a progresse, or at Bath, or at any place of equall leasure to our Spá, you will perchance descend to reade so low meditations as these. Nothing in my L. of Salisburies death exercised my poor considerations so much, as the multi∣tude of libells. It was easily discerned, some years before his death, that he was at a de∣fensive war, both for his honour and health, and (as we then thought) for his estate: and I thought, that had removed much of the envy. Besides, I have just reasons to think, that in the chiefest businesses be∣tween the Nations, he was a very good pa∣triot. But I meant to speake of nothing but the libells, of which, all which are brought into these parts, are so tastelesse and flat, that I protest to you, I think they were made by his friends. It is not the first time that our age hath seen that art practised, That when there are witty and sharp libels made
Page  90
which not onely for the liberty of speaking, but for the elegancie, and composition, would take deep root, and make durable impressions in the memory, no other way hath been thought so fit to suppresse them, as to divulge some course, and railing one: for when the noise is risen, that libels are abroad, mens curiositie must be served with something: and it is better for the honour of the person traduced, that some blunt downright railings be vented, of which every body is soon weary, then other pieces, which entertain us long with a de∣light, and love to the things themselves. I doubt not but he smoothered some libels a∣gainst him in his life time. But I would all these (or better) had been made then, for they might then have wrought upon him; and they might have testified that the Au∣thor had meant to mend him, but now they can have no honest pretence. I dare say to you, where I am not easily misinterpreted, that there may be cases, where one may do his Countrey good service, by libelling a∣gainst
Page  91
a live man. For, where a man is ei∣ther too great, or his Vices too generall, to be brought under a judiciary accusation, there is no way, but this extraordinary ac∣cusing, which we call Libelling And I have heard that nothing hath soupled and al∣layed the D. of Lerma in his violent great∣nesse, so much as the often libels made up∣on him. But after death, it is, in all cases, unexcusable. I know that Lucifer, and one or two more of the Fathers who writ libel∣lous books against the Emperours of their times, are excused by our writers, because they writ not in the lives of those Empe∣rours. I am glad for them that they writ not in their lives, for that must have occasioned tumult, and contempt, against so high and Soveraign persons. But that doth not enough excuse them to me, for writing so after their death; for that was ignoble, and uselesse, though they did a little escape the nature of libels, by being subscribed and a∣vowed: which excuse would not have served in the Star-chamber, where sealed
Page  92
Letters have been judged Libels; but these of which we speake at this present, are ca∣pable of no excuse, no amolishment, and therefore I cry you mercy, and my self too, for disliking them, with so much diligence, for they deserve not that. But Sir, you see by this, and by my Letter of last week, from hence the peremptory barrennesse of this place, from whence we can write nothing into England, but of that which comes from thence. Till the Lady Worster came hither, I had never heard any thing to make me imagine that Sir Rob. Rich was in England; the first hour that I had knowledge of it, I kisse his hands by this Letter. I make ac∣count to be in London, transitorily, about the end of August. You shall do me much fa∣vour, if I may finde a Letter from you (if you shall not then be there) at the Lady Bartlets: I shall come home in much igno∣rance, nor would I discern home by a bet∣ter light, or any other then you. I can glo∣ry of nothing in this voyage, but that I have afflicted my Lady Bedford with few Letters.
Page  93
I protest earnestly to you, it troubles me much more to dispatch a pacquet into Eng∣land, without a Letter to her, then it would to put in three. But I have been heretofore too immodest towards her, and I suffer this Purgatory for it. We make account to leave this place within 8 or 10 days, and hence to make our best haste to the Count Maurice, where we think to finde again the young Palatine: all this I tell you only because when you know, that we shall run too fast to write any more Letters, you may easily pardon the importunities and impertinen∣cies of this, and cast into no lower place of your love

Your very true friend and servant
J. Donne.
Spâ, 26 July here 1612.

