
To Sir 

SIR,
I Had destined all this Tuesday, for the Court, because it is both a Sermon day, and the first day of the Kings being here. Be∣fore I was to go forth, I had made up this inclosed pacquet for you, and then came this messenger with your pacquet, of which if you can remember the number, you can∣not expect any account thereof from me, who have not half an hour left me before I go forth, and your messenger speakes of a necessity of returning homward before my returning home. If upon the delivery of them, or any other occasion, there intervene new subject of writing, I shall relieve my

selfe upon Tuesday, if  carrier be in town. To the particulars of the Letter to my self, I will give this paper, and line. Of my Lady  I must say so much as must importune you to burn the Letter; for I would say nothing of her upon record, that should not testifie my thankfulnesse for all her graces. But upon this motion, which I made to her by letter, and by Sr  assistance, if any scruple should arise in her, she was somewhat more startling, then I looked for from her: she had more suspicion of my calling, a better memory of my past life, then I had thought her no∣bility could have admitted: of all which, though I humbly thank God, I can make good use, as one that needs as many remem∣brances in that kinde, as not only friends but enemies can present, yet I am afraid, they proceed in her rather from some ill impression taken from D.  then that they grow in her self. But whosoever be the conduit, the water is the holy Ghosts, and in that acceptation I take it. For her other

way of expressing her favour to me, I must say, it is not with that cheerfulnesse, as here∣tofore she hath delivered her self towards me. I am almost sorry, that an Elegy should have been able to move her to so much compassion heretofore, as to offer to pay my debts; and my greater wants now, and for so good a purpose, as to come dis∣ingaged into that profession, being plainly laid open to her, should work no farther but that she sent me 30  which in good faith she excused with that, which is in both parts true, that her present debts were burdensome, and that I could not doubt of her inclination, upon all future emergent occasions, to assist me. I confesse to you, her former fashion towards me, had given a better confidence; and this diminution in her makes me see, that I must use more friends, then I thought I should have needed. I would you could burn this letter, before you read it, at least do when you have read it. For, I am afraid out of a Contemplation

of mine own unworthinesse, and fortune, that the example of this Lady, should work upon the Lady where you are: for though goodnesse be originally in her, and she do good, for the deeds sake, yet, per∣chance, she may think it a little wisdome, to make such measure of me, as they who know no better, do. Of any new treaty of a match with  I hear nothing. The warres in the  to judge by their present state, are very likely to go forward. No word of a Parliament, and I my self have heard words of the K. as directly a∣gainst any such purpose, as any can sound. I never heard word, till in your letter, of any stirres in  for that of the French K. which you aske, it hath this good ground, That in the Assembly there a pro∣position hath been made, and well entertai∣ned, that the K. should be declared, to have full Jurisdiction in  and no other person to have any. It hath much of the modell and frame of our Oath of Allege∣ance, but with some modification. It is

true, it goes farther, then that State hath drove in any publique declarations, but not farther then their Schools have drove often and constantly: the easinesse that it hath found in passing thus farre without oppo∣sition, puts (perchance unnecessarily) in me a doubt, that they are sure to choak it, at the Royall assent, and therefore oppose it not, by the way, to sweeten the conveyance of their other purposes. Sir, if I stay longer I shall lose the Text, at Court, therefore I kisse your hand, and rest

Your very true servant
J. Donne.
We hear (but without second as yet) that Sir  brother in  hath taken the habit of a Capuchin.

