

To Sir H. G.
SIR,
I Cannot yet serve you with those books of which your Letter spake. In recom∣pense I will tell you a story, which if I had had leasure to have told it you when it was fresh, which was upon Thursday last, might have had some grace for the rareness, and would have tried your love to me, how farre you would adventure to beleeve an improbable thing for my sake who re∣lates
Page  214
it. That day in the morning, there was some end made, by the E. of Salisbury and others, who were Arbitrators in some differences between Herford and Mountegle, Herford was ill satisfied in it, and declared himself so farre as to say, he expected bet∣ter usage in respect not only of his cause but of his expence and service in his Ambastage: to which Salisbury replied, that considered how things stood between his Majesty and Herford house at the Kings enterance, the King had done him especiall favour in that employment of honour and confidence, by declaring in so publique and great an act and testimony, that he had no ill affections toward him. Herford answered, that he was then and ever an honest man to the King: and Salisbury said, he denied not that, but yet solemnly repeated his first words again. So that Herford seemed not to make answer, but pursuing his own word, said, that whosoever denied him to have been an honest man to the King, lyed. Salisbury asked him if he directed that upon
Page  215
him, Herford said, upon any who denied this. The earnestnes of both was such, as Sa∣lisbury accepted it to himself, and made pro∣testation before the LL. present, that he would do nothing else, till he had hono∣rably put off that lye. Within an hour after, Salisbury sent him a direct challenge, by his servant Mr Knightley; Herford required only an hours leisure of consideration (it is said, it was onely to inform himself of the espe∣ciall danger, in dealing so with a Counsel∣lor) but he returned his acceptation: And all circumstances were so clearly handled between them, that St James was agreed for the place, and they were both come from their severall lodgings, and upon the way to have met, when they were interrupted by such as from the King were sent to have care of it. So these two have escaped this great danger; but (by my troth) I fear ear∣nestly that Mistresse Bolstrod will not escape escape that sicknesse in which she labours at this time. I sent this morning to aske of her passage of this night; and the return is,
Page  216
that she is as I left her yesternight, and then by the strength of her understanding, and voyce, (proportionally to her fashion, which was ever remisse) by the eavennesse and life of her pulse, and by her temper, I could allow her long life, and impute all her sicknesse to her minde. But the History of her sicknesse, makes me justly fear, that she will scarce last so long, as that you when you receive this letter, may do her any good office, in praying for her; for she hath not for many days received so much as a preserved Barbery, but it returnes, and all accompa∣nied with a Fever, the mother, and an ex∣tream ill spleen. Whilest I write this Tues∣day morning, from Bartlet house one brings me a pacquet to your Master: he is gone; and that Lady and all the company is from town. I thought I might be pardoned, if I thought my self your man for that service to open it, which I did, and for the Letters I will deliver them. What else you bid Foster do in his Letter, bid him do it there, for (so God help me) I know not what it
Page  217
is. I must end now, else the carrier will be gone. God be with you.

Yours intirely.
You know me without a name, and I know not how this Letter goes.

