

 H. G.
SIR,
I Writ to you yesterday taking the bold∣nesse to put a letter into the good Ladies pacquet for you. This morning I had this new occasion of writing, that Sir  who brought this inclosed Letter to me,

and left it unsealed, intreated me to take the first opportunity of sending it. Besides that which is in that letter (for he read it to me) I came to the knowledg in  that my L. Chancellor hath been moved, and in∣censed against you; and asking Sir  if he were directly or occasionally any cause of that, he tells me thus much, that Sir  and Sir H.  have obtained of my L. to have a Pursevant, and consequent∣ly a Serjeant sent into the Countrey for you. My L. grounds this earnestnesse against you, upon some refusing to appear upon processe which hath been taken out against you. And I perceive Sir  and both the other, admit consultations, of ways by petition to the King, or Counsail, or L. Chamberlain, or any other. The great danger, obliquely likely to fall, is that when it comes to light, how you stand towards M.  you may lose the ease which you have by colour of that extent, and he may lose the benefit, of having had so much of his estate concealed. You will therefore

at least pardon my advising you, to place those sums, which by your retiring I pre∣sume you do imploy upon payment of debts, in such places as that these particu∣lar friends be not forced to leave being so. I confesse, the going about to pay debts, hastens importunity. I finde in my self, that where I was not asked money before, yet when I offered to pay next Terme, they seem loth to afford me that time, which might justly have been desperate before: but that which you told me out of the Countrey, with the assistance which I hope to finde here, (especially if your inde∣vour may advance it at  house) I hope will inable me to escape clamor, and an ill conscience, in that behalf. One thing more I must tell you; but so softly, that I am loath to hear my self: and so softly, that if that good Lady were in the room, with you and this Letter, she might not hear. It is, that I am brought to a necessity of prin∣ting my Poems, and addressing them to my L. Chamberlain. This I mean to do

forth with; not for much publique view, but at mine own cost, a few Copies. I ap∣prehend some incongruities in the resoluti∣on; and I know what I shall suffer from many interpretations: but I am at an end, of much considering that; and, if I were as startling in that kinde, as ever I was, yet in this particular, I am under an unescapable necessity, as I shall let you perceive, when I see you. By this occasion I am made a Rhapsoder of mine own rags, and that cost me more diligence, to seek them, then it did to make them. This made me aske to bor∣row that old book of you, which it will be too late to see, for that use, when I see you: for I must do this, as a valediction to the world, before I take Orders. But this is it, I am to aske you; whether you ever made any such use of the letter in verse,  as that I may not put it in, amongst the rest to persons of that rank; for I desire very very much, that something should bear her name in the book, and I would be just to my written

words to my L.  to write no∣thing after that. I pray tell me as soon as you can, if I be at liberty to insert that: for if you have by any occasion applied any pieces of it, I see not, that it willbe discerned, when it appears in the wholepiece. Though this be a little matter, I would be sorry not to have an account of it, within as little af∣ter Newyears tide, as you could. I have something else to say, of M.  but be∣cause I hope to see you here shortly, and be∣cause new additions, to the truths or ru∣mours, which concern him, are likely to be made by occasion of this Masque, I forbear to send you the edition of this Mart, since I know it will be augmented by the next: of which, if you prevent it not by com∣ming, you shall have, by letter an account from

Your very affectionate friend and servant
J. Donne.
Vigilia St. Tho. 1614.

