
To my Noble friend Mris  at 

My noblest sister,
BUt that it is sweetned by your command, nothing could trouble me more, then to write of my self. Yet, if I would have it known, I must write it my self; for, I neither tell children, nor servants, my state. I have never good temper, nor good pulse, nor good appetite, nor good sleep. Yet, I have so much leasure to recol∣lect my self, as that I can thinke I have been long thus, or often thus. I am not alive,

because I have not had enough upon me to kill me, but because it pleases God to passe me through many infirmities before he take me either by those particular remem∣brances, to bring me to particular repen∣tances, or by them to give me hope of his particular mercies in heaven. Therefore have I been more affected with Coughs in vehemence, more with deafenesse, more with toothach, more with the vurbah, then heretofore. All this mellows me for hea∣ven, and so ferments me in this world, as I shall need no long concoction in the grave, but hasten to the resurrection. Not onely to be nearer that grave, but to be nearer to the service of the Church, as long as I shall be able to do any, I purpose, God willing, to be at  within a fortnight after your receit of this, as well because I am under the obligation of preaching at  upon Candlemas day, as because I know nothing to the contrary, but that I may be called to Court, for Lent service; and my witnesse is in heaven, that I never left out S. 
when I was able to do them that service; nor will now; though they that know the state of that Church well, know that I am not so bound, as the world thinks, to preach there; for, I make not a shilling profit of S.  as a Church man, but as my L. of  gave me the lease of the Impropri∣ation, for a certain rent, and a higher rent, thē my predecessor had it at. This I am fain to say often, because they that know it not, have defamed me, of a defectiveness to∣wards that Church; and even that mista∣king of theirs I ever have, and ever shall en∣devour to rectifie, by as often preaching there, as my condition of body will admit. All our company here is well, but not at home now, when I write; for, lest I should not have another return to  before the day of your Carrier, I write this, and rest

Your very affectionate servant, and friend, and brother
J. Donne.
15 Jan. 1630. Abrey-hatch.

