
Page  154To the Honour able Knight Sir H. Goodere.

SIR,
I Have but one excuse for not sending you the Sermon that you do me the ho∣nour to command, and I foresee, that be∣fore I take my hand from this paper, I shall lose the benefit of that excuse; it is, that for more then twenty days, I have been travelled with a pain, in my right wrist, so like the Gout, as makes me unable to write. The writing of this Letter will implore a commentary for that, that I cannot write legibly; for that I cannot write much, this Letter will testifie against me. Sir, I be∣feech you, at first, tell your company, that I decline not the service out of sullennesse nor lazinesse, nor that any fortune damps me so much, as that I am not sensible of the honour of their commanding it, but a meer inexperience whether I be able to write eight hours or no; but I will try next week, and either do it, for their ser∣vice,
Page  155
or sink in their service. This is Thurs∣day: and upon Tuesday my Lady Bedford came to this town: this afernoon I presen∣ted my service to her, by Mris Withrington: and so asked leave to have waited upon them at supper: but my messenger found them ready to go into their Coach: so that a third Letter which I received from Mris Dadley, referring me to Mris Withringtons re∣lation of all that State, I lose it till their return to this town. To clear you in that wherein I see by your Letter that I had not well expressed my self in mine, Sir Ed. Herbert writ to Sir Ed. Sackvil, not to presse the King to fix any certain time of sending him, till he was come over, and had spo∣ken with the King: Sir Ed. Sackvil col∣lects upon that, that Sir Ed. H. meanes to go again; I think it is only, that he would have his honour so saved, as not to seem to be recalled, by having a successor, before he had emptied the place. We hear nothing from my Lord of Doncaster; nor have we any way to send to him. I have not seen
Page  156
my Lady Doncaster, for she crost to Penhurst, and from thence to Petworth, my Lady Isabella came to this Town; where, before her comming, a Letter attended her from my Lady of Tichfield: and thither she went, with their servants, who staid her comming. Hither came lately Letters with goodspeed from Vienna, in which there is no mention of any such defeat, as in rumour C. Mansfeld hath been said to have given to the D. of Bavyer: but their forces were then within such distance, as may have procured something before this time. Those which watched advantages in the Court of the Emperour, have made that use of C. Mansfelds proceedings, as that my Lord Digby complains, that there by, the forward∣nesse in which his negotiation was, is somewhat retarded. He proceeds from thence into Spain. The D. of Bavyer hath pre∣sented the Emperour an account of 1200ml. sterling in that warre, to be reimbursed: and finding the Palatinate to be in treaty, hath required a great part of Austria for his
Page  157
security, and they say, it is so transacted; which is a good signe of a possibility in the restitution of the Palatinate. For any thing I discern, their fears are much greater from Hungary, then from Bohemia; and the losse of Canon, in a great proportion, and other things, at the death of Bucquoy, was much greater, then they suffered to be published. We here Spinola is passed over at Rhenebery; if it be so, they are no longer distracted, whe∣ther he would bend upon Juliers, or the Palatinate. I know not what you hear from your noble son in law, who sees those things clearly in himself, and in a near distance; but I hear here, that the King hath much lost the affection of the English in those parts. Whether it proceed from any sowrenesse in him, or that they be o∣therwise taken off, from applying them∣selves to him, I know not. My Lord of S. Albons hath found so much favour as that a pension of 2000 l. will be given him; he desires that he might have it for years, that so he might transferre it upon his cre∣ditors;
Page  158
or that in place of it he might have 8000 l. for he hath found a disposition in his creditors (to whom I hear he hath paid 3000 l. since by retyring) to accept 8000 l. for all his debts, which are three times as much. I have been some times with my L. of Canterbury, since by accident, to give you his own words. I see him retain his for∣mer cheerfulnesse here and at Croydon, but I do not hear from Court, that he hath any ground for such a confidence, but that his case may need favour, and not have it. That place, and Bedington, and Chelsey, and High∣gate, where that very good man my Lord Hobard is, and Hackney, with the M. of the Rolls, and my familiar Peckham, are my circumferrence. No place so eccentrique to me, as that I lye just at London; and with those fragmentary recreations I must make shift to recompense the missing of that contentment which your favour opens to me, and my desire provokes me to, the kissing of your hands at Polesworth. My daughter Constance is at this time with me;
Page  159
for the emptinesse of the town, hath made me, who otherwise live upon the almes of others, a houskeeper, for a moneth; and so she is my servant below stairs, and my companion above: she was at the table with me, when your Letter was brought, and I pay her a piece of her petition in do∣ing her this office, to present her service to my Lady Nethersoles, and her very good sister. But that she is gone to bed two hours before I writ this, she should have signed, with such a hand as your daughter Mary did to me, that which I testifie for her, that she is as affectionate a servant to them all, as their goodnesse hath created any where. Sir, I shall recompense my tediousnesse, in closing mine eyes with a prayer for yours, as for mine own happinesse, for I am al∣most in bed; if it were my last bed, and I upon my last businesse there, I should not omit to joyn you with

Your very humble and very thankfull servant in Christ Jesus
J. Donne.
Aug. 30. 1611.

