
To the gallant Knight Sir Tho, Lucy.

SIR,
BEcause in your last Letter, I have an in∣vitation to come to you, though I ne∣ver thought my self so fallen from my in∣terest, which, by your favour, I prescribe in, in you, and therefore when in the spring I hoped to have strength enough, to come in∣to those parts, upon another occasion, I always resolved to put my self into your presence too, yet now I aske you more par∣ticularly how you dispose of your self; for though I have heard, that you purpose a
Page  209
journey to the Bath, and from thence hither, yet I can hope, that my service at Lincolns Inne being ended for next Terme, I may have in∣termission enough to waite upon you at Poleseworth, before the season call you to Bath. I was no easie apprehender of the fear of your departing from us; neither am I easie in the hope of seeing you intirely o∣ver suddenly. God loves your soul, if he be loth to let it go inch-meale, and not by swallowings; and he loves it too, if he build it up again stone after stone; his will is not done except his way, and his leasure be observed. In my particular, I am sorry, if my ingenuity and candor in delivering my self in those points, of which you speak to me, have defaced those impressi∣ons which were in you before: if my free∣dome have occasioned your captivity, I am miserably sorry. I went unprofitably and improvidently, to the utmost end of Truth, because I would go as farre as I could to meet Peace; if my going so far in declaring my self, brought you where you could not
Page  210
stop. But I was as confident in your strength, as in mine own, so am I still, in him, who strengthens al our infirmities and will, I doubt not, bring you and me toge∣ther, in all those particulars, so as we shall not part in this world, nor the next. Sir, your own soul cannot be more zealous of your peace, then I am: and God, who loves that zeale in me, will not suffer you to suspect it. I am surprised with a necessity of writing now, in a minute; for I sent to Bedford house to informe my self of means to write, and your daughter sent me word, of a present messenger, and therefore the rest of this, I shall make up in my prayers to our blessed Saviour, for all happinesses to you.

Your poor servant in Chr. Jesus
J. Donne.
Drury house the 22 of Decemb. 1607.

