

 G.M.
IF you were here, you would not think me importune, if I did you good mor∣row every day; and such a patience will ex∣cuse my often' Letters. No other kinde of conveyance is better for knowledge, or love: What treasures of Morall knowledge are in  Letters to onely one  and what of Naturall in  how much of the storie of the time, is in  Let∣ters?

And how all of these times, in the Jesuites Eastern and Western Epistles? where can we finde so perfect a Character of  as in his own Letters, which are almost so many writs of Execution? Or of  as in his privie seals for monie? The Evangiles and Acts, teach us what to beleeve, but the Epistles of the Apostles what to do. And those who have endevou∣red to dignifie  above his worth, have no way fitter, then to imagine Letters be∣tween him and S.  As they think also that they have expressed an excellent person, in that Letter which they obtrude, from our B. Saviour to King  The Ita∣lians, which are most discursive, and think the world owes them all wisdome, abound so much in this kinde of expressing, that  saies, he hath seen, (as I re∣member) 400 volumes of Italian Letters. But it is the other capacity which must make mine acceptable, that they are also the best conveyers of love. But, though all knowledge be in those Authors already,

yet, as some poisons, and some medicines, hurt not, nor profit, except the creature in which they reside, contribute their lively activitie, and vigor; so, much of the know∣ledge buried in Books perisheth, and be∣comes ineffectuall, if it be not applied, and refreshed by a companion, or friend. Much of their goodnesse, hath the same period, which some Physicians of  have ob∣served to be in the biting of their  that it affects no longer, then the flie lives. For with how much desire we read the pa∣pers of any living now, (especially friends) which we would scarce allow a boxe in our cabinet, or shelf in our Library, if they were dead? And we do justly in it, for the writings and words of men present, we may examine, controll, and expostulate, and receive satisfaction from the authors; but the other we must beleeve, or discredit; they present no mean. Since then at this time, I am upon the stage, you may be con∣tent to hear me. And now that perchance I have brought you to it, (as  did

the King) now I have nothing to say. And it is well, for the Letter is already long e∣nough, else let this probleme supply, which was occasioned by you, of women wea∣ring stones; which, it seems, you were afraid women should read, because you avert them at the beginning, with a prote∣station of cleanlinesse.  found no way fitter to draw the Romane Matrons to read one of his Books, which he thinks most morall and cleanly, then to counsell them by the first Epigram to skip the Book, because it was obscene. But either you write not at all for women, or for those of sincerer palates. Though their unworthi∣nesse, and your own ease be advocates for me with you, yet I must adde my entreaty, that you let goe no copy of my Problems, till I review them. If it be too late, at least be able to tell me who hath them.
Yours,
J. Donne.
