
To Sir 

SIR,
I Receive this 14 your Letter of the 10. yet I am not come to an understanding how these Carriers keep daies: for I would fain think that the Letters which I sent up∣on  last might have given you such an account of the state of my family, that you needed not have asked by this. But

Sir, it hath pleased God to adde thus much to my affliction, that my wife hath now confessed her self to be extremely sick; she hath held out thus long to assist me, but is now overturn'd, & here we be in two beds, or graves; so that God hath marked out a great many of us, but taken none yet. I have passed ten daies without taking any thing; so that I think no man can live more thrifti∣ly. I have purged and vexed my body much since I writ to you, and this day I have missed my fit: and this is the first time, that I could discern any intermission. This is enough, the rest I will spend upon the parts of your Letter: Your Letter at  is delivered. In the History of that remove, this onely perchance may be news to you, that Mr  hath got of the King the Deans best Living worth above 300l, which the Dean had good hope to have held a while. Of that which you writ concerning a Book of the Nullity, I have heard no syllable any other way. If you have received it by good hands, I beleeve it

with you: otherwise the report is naturally very incredible. Though the answering of it be a work for some, both of better abi∣lities really, and in common reputation also, yet I was like enough to have had some knowledge thereof. You mention again some thing which it seems you are not willing I should understand of my La∣dy  some of your former Letters, have spoken of some other former Letters, (which I never saw) which speak of the matter as of a history and thing done; and these later Letters speak of it Prophetically, as of a future contingent. I am glad the of∣ten remembrance of it, gives me often oc∣casion of thankfulnesse to her, for retaining me in her memory, and of professing my self in my end, and ways, her most humble servant. For your Parliament businesse, I should be very sorry, if you came not up, because I presume you had seposed many businesses, to have been done at that time; but in the ways wherein you have gone, I protest I am diffident. For first, for that L.

whom you solicited by Letters through me, I tell you with the whispering of a secret, but the confidence of a friend, that you will be deceived whensoever you think that he should take any delight in doing you a courtesie. And I am afraid, the true heartinesse of the other noble Gentleman M.  will be of small use in this per∣ticular, if he have but solicited my L. his fa∣ther to reserve a blanke for his friend, for my L. hath suffered more denialls, even in places where he sent names, then could have been feared. Besides M.  hath not written to his father therein, but to M.  who perceiving those Letters to be written, before his purpose of being Knight for the shire, thinkes these Letters extinguished. You made me offer so long since of a place (it was when you writ into the west) yet I could think it no merit to have offered you one since, otherwise it hath been since in my power, for since the Mr. of the Rolls provided me one, Sir  who makes haste away, made me a

present of his; and I have had a third of∣fer. The businesse of your last weeks Let∣ter concerning the widow, is not a subject for a feverous mans consideration. There∣fore I only send you back those Letters which you sent; and aske you leave to make this which I am fain to call my good day, so much truly good, as to spend the rest of it with D.  who is, upon my summons, at this hour come to me My Physicians have made me afraid, that this disease will work into my head, and so put me into lightnesses, therefore I am desi∣rous that I be understood before any such danger overtake me.

Your true poor servant
J. Donne.
14. March.

