
To all my friends: Sir H. Goodere.

SIR,
I Am not weary of writing; it is the course but durable garment of my love; but I am weary of wanting you. I have a minde like those bodies, which have hot Livers, and cold stomachs; or such a dis∣temper as travelled me at Paris; a Fever, and dysentery: in which, that which is phy∣sick to one infirmity, nourishes the other. So I abhor nothing more then sadnesse, ex∣cept the ordinary remedy, change of com∣pany.
Page  43
I can allow my self to be Animal socia∣le, appliable to my company, but not gregale, to herd my self in every troup. It is not per∣fectly true which a very subtil, yet very deep wit Averroes says, that all mankinde hath but one soul, which informes and rules us all, as one Intelligence doth the firmament and all the Starres in it; as though a parti∣cular body were too little an organ for a soul to play upon. And it is as imperfect which is taught by that religion wch is most accommodate to sense (I dare not say to rea∣son (though it have appearance of that too) because none may doubt but that that reli∣gion is certainly best, which is reasonablest) That all mankinde hath one protecting Angel; all Christians one other, all English one other, all of one Corporation and every civill coagulation or society one other; and every man one other. Though both these opinions expresse a truth; which is, that mankinde hath very strong bounds to co∣habit and concurre in other then moun∣tains and hills during his life. First, com∣mon,
Page  44
and mutuall necessity of one ano∣ther; and therefore naturally in our de∣fence, and subventions we first flie to our felves; next, to that which is likest, other men. Then, naturall and inborn charity, beginning at home, which perswades us to give, that we may receive: And legall charity, which makes us also forgive. Then an ingraffing in one another, and growing together by a custome of society: and last of all, strict friendship, in which band men were so presumed to be coupled, that our Confessor King had a law, that if a man be killed, the murderer shall pay a sum felago suo, which the interpreters call, fide li∣gato, et comite vitae. All these bands I willing∣ly receive, for no man is lesse of himself then I: nor any man enough of himself. To be so, is all one with omnipotence. And it is well marked, that in the holy Book, wheresoever they have rendered Almighty, the word is Self-sufficient. I think some∣times that the having a family should re∣move me farre from the curse of Vae soli.Page  45
But in so strict obligation of Parent, or Husband, or Master, (and perchance it is so in the last degree of friendship) where all are made one, I am not the lesse alone, for being in the midst of them. Therefore this oleum laetitiae, this balme of our lives, this alacrity which dignifies even our service to God, this gallant enemy of dejection and sadnesse, (for which and wickednesse the Italian allows but one word, Triste: And in full condemnation whereof it was pro∣phesied of our blessed Saviour, Non erit tristis, in his conversation) must be sought and preserved diligently. And since it grows without us, wemust be sure to gather it from the right tree. They which place this alacrity only in a good conscience, deal somewhat too roundly with us, for when we aske the way, they shew us the town afar off: Will a Physitian consulted for health and strength, bid you have good sinews and equall temper? It is true, that this conscience is the resultance of all other particular actions; it is our triumph and
Page  46
banquet in the haven; but I would come towards that also, (as Mariners say) with a merry winde. Our nature is Mete∣orique, we respect (because we partake so) both earth and heaven; for as our bodies glorified shall be capable of spirituall joy, so our souls demerged into those bodies, are allowed to partake earthly pleasure. Our soul is not sent hither, only to go back again: we have some errand to do here: nor is it sent into prison, because it comes innocent: and he which sent it, is just. As we may not kill our selves, so we may not bury our selves: which is done or endan∣gered in a dull Monastique sadnesse, which is so much worse then jolity (for upon that word I durst——And certainly despair is in∣finitly worse, then presumption: both be∣cause this is an excesse of love, that of fear; and because this is up, that down the hill; easier, and more stumbling. Heaven is ex∣pressed by singing, hell by weeping. And though our blessed Saviour be never noted
Page  47
to have laughed, yet his continuance is said ever to be smiling. And that even moderate mirth of heart, and face, and all I wish to my self; and perswade you to keep. This alacrity is not had by a general charity and e∣quanimity to all mankinde, for that is to seek fruit in a wildernesse: nor from a sin∣gular friend, for that is to fetch it out of your own pocket: but the various and abundant grace of it, is good company. In which no rank, no number, no quality, but ill, and such a degree of that as may corrupt and poyson the good, is exempt. For in nearer then them, your friend, and somewhat nearer then he, in your self you must allow some inordinatenesse of affecti∣ons and passions. For it is not true that they are not natural, but stormes and tempests of our bloud and humours: for they are na∣turall, but siokly. And as the Indian priests expressed an excellent charity, by building Hospitalls and providing chirurgery for birds and beasts samed by mischance, or age, or labour: so must we, not cut off,
Page  48
but cure these affections, which are the bestiall part.
