
To Sr 

I Send not my Letters as tribute, nor inte∣rest, not recompense, nor for commerce, nor as testimonials of my love, nor provo∣kers of yours, nor to justifie my custome of writing, nor for a vent and utterance of my meditations; for my Letters are either a∣bove or under all such offices; yet I write very affectionately, and I chide and accuse my self of diminishing that affection which sends them, when I ask my self why: one∣ly I am sure that I desire that you might have in your hands Letters of mine of all kindes, as conveyances and deliverers of me to you, whether you accept me as a friend, or as a patient, or as a penitent, or as a beadsman, for I decline no jurisdiction, or refuse any tenure. I would not open any doore upon you, but look in when you open it. Angels have not, nor affect not other knowledge of one another, then they list to reveal to one another. It is then in this onely, that friends are Angels, that they

are capable and fit for such revelations when they are offered. If at any time I seem to studie you more inquisitively, it is for no other end but to know how to pre∣sent you to God in my prayers, and what to ask of him for you; for even that holy exercise may not be done inopportunely, no nor importunely. I finde little errour in that Grecians counsell, who saies, If thou ask any thing of God, offer no sacrifice, nor ask elegantly, nor vehemently, but remem∣ber that thou wouldest not give to such an asker: Nor in his other Countriman, who affirms sacrifice of blood to be so unpro∣portionable to God, that perfumes, though much more spirituall, are too grosse. Yea words which are our subtillest and delica∣test outward creatures, being composed of thoughts and breath, are so muddie, so thick, that our thoughts themselves are so, because (except at the first rising) they are ever leavened with passions and affections: And that advantage of nearer familiarity with God, which the act of incarnation

gave us, is grounded upon Gods assu∣ming us, not our going to him. And, our accesses to his presence are but his descents into us; and when we get any thing by prayer, he gave us before hand the thing and the petition. For, I scarce think any ineffectuall prayer free from both sin, and the punishment of sin: yet as God seposed a seventh of our time for his exterior wor∣ship, and as his Christian Church early presented him a type of the whole year in a Lent, and after imposed the obligation of canonique hours, constituting thereby mo∣rall Sabbaths every day; I am farre from dehorting those fixed devotions: But I had rather it were bestowed upon thanks∣giving then petition, upon praise then pray∣er; not that God is indeared by that, or wearied by this; all is one in the receiver, but not in the sender: and thanks doth both offices; for, nothing doth so inno∣cently provoke new graces, as gratitude. I would also rather make short prayers then extend them, though God can neither be

surprised, nor besieged: for, long prayers have more of the man, as ambition of elo∣quence, and a complacencie in the work, and more of the Devil by often distracti∣ons: for, after in the beginning we have well intreated God to hearken, we speak no more to him. Even this Letter is some ex∣ample of such infirmitie, which being in∣tended for a Letter, is extended and strayed into a Homilie. And whatsoever is not what it was purposed, is worse, therefore it shall at last end like a Letter by assuring you I am
