
Page  140To the best Knight Sir H. Wootton.

SIR,
VVHen I saw your good Countesse last, she let me think that her message by her foot-man would hasten you up. And it furthered that opinion in me, when I knew how near M. Mathews day of departing this kingdome was. To counterpoyse both these, I have a little Letter from you brought to me to Micham yesterday, but left at my lodging two days sooner: and because that speaks nothing of your return, I am content to be perplex∣ed in it: and as in all other, so in this perplexity to do that which is safest. To me it is safest to write, because it per∣formes a duty, and leaves my conscience well: and though it seem not safest for the Letter, which may perish, yet I remember, that in the Crociate for the warres in the Holy Land, and so in all Pilgrimages enter∣prised in devotion, he which dies in the way, enjoyes all the benefit and indulgences
Page  141
which the end did afford. Howsoever, all that can encrease the danger of your Let∣ter, encrease my merit; for, as where they immolate men, it is a a scanter devotion, to sacrifice one of many slaves or of many children, or an onely child, then to beget and bring up one purposely to sacrifice it, so if I ordain this Letter purposely for de∣struction, it is the largest expressing of that kinde of piety, and I am easie to beleeve (because I wish it) your hast hither: Not that I can fear any slacknesse in that business which drew you down, because your for∣tune and honour are a paire of good spurs to it; but here also you have both true businesse and many Quasi negotia, which go two and two to a businesse; which are visitations, and such, as though they be not full businesses, yet are so near them that they serve as for excuses, in omissions of the o∣ther. As when abjurations was in use in this land, the State and law was satisfied if the abjuror came to the sea side, and waded into the sea, when windes and tydes re∣sisted,
Page  142
so we think our selves justly excusa∣ble to our friends and our selves, if when we should do businesse, we come to the place of businesse, as Courts and the houses of great Princes and officers. I do not so much intimate your infirmity in this, as frankly confesse mine own. The master of Latine language says, Oculi & aures aliorum te speculantur & custodiunt. So those two words are synonimous, & only the observation of others upon me, is my preservation from extream idlenesse, else I professe, that I hate businesse so much, as I am sometimes glad to remember, that the Roman Church reads that verse A negotio perambulante in tenebris, which we reade from the pestilence wal∣king by night, so equall to me do the plague and businesse deserve avoiding, but you will neither beleeve that I abhor busi∣nesse, if I inlarge this Letter, nor that I would afford you that ease which I affect, Therefore returne to your pleasures.

Your unprofitablest friend
Jo. Donne.
March 14. 1607.
Page  143
It is my third Letter: which I tell you, because I found not Mr. Rogers, but left the Letter which I sent last, with a stran∣ger at Cliffords Inne.

