
To the Honourable Knight Sir H. G.

SIR,
AFter I have told you, that the Lady Hay dyed last Tuesday, and that to her end she was anguished with the memory
Page  172
of the execution of that fellow which at∣tempted her in the coach. I have told you all which hath fallen out here. Except between you and me that may be worth the telling, that my L. Chancellor gave me so noble and so ready a dispatch; accompanied with so fatherly advise, and remorse for my fortunes, that I am now, like an Alchymist, delighted with discoveries by the way, though I attain not mine end. It spent me so little time after your going, that, although you speak in your Letter of good dispatchin your going, yet I might have overtaken you. And though perchāce if I had gone, it might have been inconvenient for me, to have put my self into my L. Chamberlains presence, if that sicknesse be earnest at Ashby, and so I should nothing have advanced my busi∣nesse, yet I should have come to that noble Lady with better confidence, and more assurance of a pardon, when I had brought a conscience, that I came despoiled of all other respects, only to kisse her hands, in whose protection I am, since I have, nor de∣sire other station, then a place in her good
Page  173
opinion. I took so good contentment in the fashion which my L. Chancellor used towards me, that out of a voluptuous loath∣nesse to let that taste go out of my mouth, I forbear to make any further tryall in that businesse till the King come into these quar∣ters. So that, Sir, I am here in place to serve you, if either I be capable of your com∣mandements, or this town give any thing worth the writing. As often as you see your noble friend, and her good sister, al∣low my name a room in your discourse, it is a short one, and you will soon have done. But tell them not my desire to do them ser∣vice, for then you engage your self in a lon∣ger discourse, then I am worthy. Only in pursuit of your commandment I sent the Paquet to the Post, for in mine own un∣derstanding, there should appear small hope of arriving by that way, except you know otherwise that the LL. mean to make some stay in their return, in those parts: but the Letter is brought back a∣gain, for the Post went away yesterday, and
Page  174
they knew of no occasion of sending till next week. Therefore except I can inform my self of some good means, I will retain it, till I have a fresh commandment from you. I see M. Taverner still in this town, the Lady Carey went from hence but yesterday. I am in some perplexity what to doe with this pacquet, till some good fortune, or your Letters clear me.

Your humble servant
J. Donne.
Aug. 19.

