

 H. Wootton.
SIR,
THat which is at first but a visitation, and a civill office, comes quickly to be a haunting, and an uncivill importunity: my often writing might be subject to such a misinterpretation, if it were not to you, who as you know that the affection which suggests and dictates them, is ever one, and continuall, and uninterrupted; may be pleased to think my Letters so too, and that all the pieces make but one long Letter, and so I know you would not grudge to read any intire book of mine, at that pace, as you do my Letters, which is a leafe a week: especially such Letters as mine, which (per∣chance out of the dulnesse of the place) are so empty of any relations, as that they op∣presse not your meditations, nor discourse, nor memory. You know that for aire we are sure we apprehend and enjoy it, but when this aire is rarified into fire, we begin to dispute whether it be an element, or no:

so when Letters have a convenient hand∣some body of news, they are Letters; but when they are spun out of nothing, they are nothing, or but apparitions, and ghosts, with such hollow sounds, as he that hears them, knows not what they said. You (I think) and I am much of one sect in the Philosophy of love; which though it be directed upon the minde, doth inhere in the body, and find piety entertainment there: so have Letters for their principall office, to be seals and testimonies of mutuall affection, but the materialls and fuell of them should be a confident and mutuall communicating of those things which we know. How shall I then who know nothing write Let∣ters? Sir, I learn knowledge enough out of yours to me. I learn that there is truth and sirmnesse and an earnestness of doing good alive in the world; and therefore, since there is so good company in it, I have not so much desire to go out of it, as I had, if my fortune would afford me any room in it. You know I have been no coward, nor

unindustrious in attempting that; nor will I give it over yet. If at last, I must confesse, that I dyed ten years ago, yet as the Primitive Church admitted some of the  Ceremonies, not for perpe∣tuall use, but because they would bury the Synagogue honourably, though I dyed at a blow then when my courses were diverted, yet it wilplease me a little to have had a long funerall, and to have kept my self so long a∣bove ground without putrefaction. But this is melancholique discourse; To change therefore from this Metaphoricall death to the true, and that with a little more relish of mirth, let me tell you the good nature of the executioner of  who when  was beheaded, (who dying in the profes∣sion of the Religion, had made his peace with God in the prison, and so said nothing at the place of execution) swore he had ra∣ther execute forty Huguenots, then one Catholique, because the Huguenot used so few words, and troubled him so little, in respect of the dilatory ceremonies of the

others, in dying.  the great Court Je∣suite hath so importuned the  to give some modifications to the late interlocuto∣ry arrest against the Jesuits, that in his pre∣sence, the C.  who had been present in the Court at the time of the arrest, and  the Kings Advocate, who urged it, and the Premier president, were sent for: They came so well provided with their books, out of which they assigned to the  so many, so evident places of seditious doctrine, that the  was well satisfied, that it was fit by all means to provide a∣gainst the teaching of the like doctrine in  The D. of  is come to  with (they say) 600 horse in his train; all which company, came with him into the Court: which is an insolency remarkable here. They say that scarce any of the Princes appear in the streets, but with very great trains. No one enemy could wast the trea∣sures of  so much, as so many friends do: for the  dares scarce deny any, that so she may have the better leave to make haste

to advance her Marquis of  of whose greatnesse, for matter of command, or danger, they have no great fear, he being no very capable nor stirring man: and then for his drawing of great benefits from the  they make that use of it, that their suits passe with lesse opposition. I beleeve the treasure is scattered, because I see the future receipt charged with so very many and great pensions. The  hath adventu∣red a little to stop this rage of the Princes importunity, by denying a late suit of  which though the other Princes grudge not that  should faile, for he hath drawn infinite sums already, yet they resent it somewhat tenderly, that any of them should be denyed, when the Marquis obtains. That which was much observed in the Kings more childish age, when I was last here, by those whom his father appointed to judge, by an assiduous obser∣vation, his naturall inclination, is more and more confirmed, that his inclinations are cruell, and tyrannous; and when he is any

way affected, his stammering is so ex∣treme, as he can utter nothing. They can∣not draw him to look upon a son of the Marquis, whom they have put into his ser∣vice. And he was so extremely affectionate towards the younger son of  that they have removed him to a charge which he hath, as he is made Prieur of  but yet there passe such Letters between them, by stealth and practise, as (though it be be∣tween children) it is become a matter of State, and much diligence used to prevent the Letters. For the young Marquis of  the K. speaks often of transplan∣ting him into the Church, and once this Christmas delighted himself to see his young brother in a Cardinalls habit. Sir, it is time to take up, for I know, that any thing, from this place, as soon as it is cer∣tain, is stale. I have been a great while more mannerly towards my Lady  then to trouble her with any of mine own verses, but having found these French ver∣ses accompanied with a great deal of repu∣tation

here, I could not forbear to aske her leave to send them. I writ to you by Mr.  the 17 of  here, and he carried that Letter to  to gather news, like a snow∣ball. He told me that  is gone to  with Commission to remove and succeed  I am afraid you have neg∣lected that businesse. Continue me in M.  good opinion: I know I shall ne∣ver fall from it, by any demerit of mine, and I know I need not fear it, out of any slack∣nesse or slipperinesse in him, but much bu∣sinesse may strangle me in him. When it shall not trouble you to write to me, I pray do me the favour to tell me, how many you have received from me, for I have now much just reason to imagine, that some of my Pacquets have had more honour then I wished them: which is to be delivered into the hands of greater personages, then I addressed them unto. Hold me still in your own love, and proceed in that noble testi∣mony of it, of which your Letter by M.  spoke, (which is the only Letter that

I have received, since I came away) and beleeve me that I shall ever with much af∣fection, and much devotion joine both your fortune and your last best happinesse, with the desire of mine own in all my ci∣vill, and divine wishes, as the only retri∣bution in the power of
Your affectionate servant
Jo. Donne.
