
To his honourable friend Sr 

SIR,
TO you that are not easily scandalized, and in whom, I hope, neither my Religion nor Morality can suffer, I dare write my opinion of that Book in whose bowels you left me. It hath refreshed, and given new justice to my ordinary com∣plaint, That the Divines of these times, are become meer Advocates, as though Religi∣on were a temporall inheritance; they plead for it with all sophistications, and il∣lusions, and forgeries: And herein are they likest Advocates, that though they be feed by the way, with Dignities, and other recompenses, yet that for which they plead is none of theirs. They write for Religion, without it. In the main point in question, I think truly there is a perplexity (as farre as I see yet) and both sides may be in justice, and innocence; and the wounds which they inflict upon the adverse part, are all  for, clearly, our State cannot be

safe without the Oath; since they professe, that Clergie-men, though Traitors, are no Subjects, and that all the rest may be none to morrow. And, as clearly, the Suprema∣cy which the Ro. Church pretend, were diminished, if it were limited; and will as ill a bide that, or disputation, as the Pre∣rogative of temporall Kings, who being the onely judges of their prerogative, why may not Roman Bishops, (so enlightned as they are presumed by them) be good wit∣nesses of their own supremacie, which is now so much impugned? But for this par∣ticular Author, I looked for more prudence, and humane wisdome in him, in avoiding all miscitings, or mis-interpretings, because at this time, the watch is set, and every bo∣dies hammer is upon that anvill; and to dare offend in that kinde now, is, for a theef to leave the covert, and meet a strong hue and cry in the teeth: and yet truly this man is extremely obnoxious in that kinde; for, though he have answered many things ful∣ly, (as no book ever gave more advantage

then that which he undertook) and abound in delicate applications, and ornaments, from the divine and prophane authors, yet being chiefly conversant about two points, he prevaricates in both. For, for the matter, which is the first, he referres it intirely, and namely, to that which D.  hath said therein before, and so leaves it roundly: And for the person (which is the second) upon whom he amasses as ma∣ny opprobries, as any other could deserve, he pronounceth, that he will account any answer from his adversary, slaunder, except he do (as he hath done) draw whatsoever he saith of him, from Authors of the same Religion, and in print: And so, he having made use of all the Quodlibetaries, imputa∣tions against the other, cannot be obnoxi∣ous himself in that kinde, and so hath pro∣vided safely. It were no service to you, to send you my notes upon the Book, because they are sandy, and incoherent ragges, for my memory, not for your judgement; and to extend them to an easinesse, and perspi∣cuity,

would make them a Pamphlet, not a Letter. I will therefore deferre them till I see you; and in the mean time, I will ad∣venture to say to you, without inserting one unnecessary word, that the Book is full of falsifications in words, and in sense, and of falshoods in matter of fact, and of incon∣sequent and unscholarlike arguings, and of relinquishing the King, in many points of defence, and of contradiction of himself, and of dangerous and suspected Doctrine in Divinitie, and of silly ridiculous triflings, and of extreme flatteries, and of neglecting better and more obvious answers, and of letting slip some enormous advantages which the other gave, and he spies not. I know (as I begun) I speak to you who can∣not be scandalized, and that neither mea∣sure Religion (as it is now called) by Uni∣tie, nor suspect Unity, for these interrupti∣ons. Sir, not onely a Mathematique point, which is the most indivisible and unique thing which art can present, flowes into every line which is derived from the Cen∣ter,

but our soul which is but one, hath swallowed up a Negative, and feeling soul; which was in the body before it came, and exercises those faculties yet; and God him∣selfe, who only is one, seems to have been eternally delighted, with a disunion of per∣sons. They whose active function it is, must endevour this unity in Religion: and and we at our lay Altars (which are our tables, or bedside, or stools, wheresoever we dare prostrate our selves to God in pray∣er) must beg it of him: but we must take heed of making misconclusions upon the want of it: for, whether the Maior and Aldermen fall out, (as with us and the Pu∣ritans; Bishops against Priests) or the Commoners voyces differ who is Maior, and who Aldermen, or what their Jurif∣diction, (as with the Bishop of  or whosoever) yet it is still one Corporation.

Your very affectionate servant and lover
J. Donne.
Micham, Thurs∣day late.
Never leave the remembrance of my poor ser∣vice unmentioned when you see the good Lady.

