
To the Honourable Sir 

SIR,
I Gave no answer to the Letter I received from you upon Tuesday, both because I had in it no other commandment by it but to deliver your Letter therein, which I did, and because that Letter found me under very much sadnesse, which (according to the proportion of ills that fall upon me)

is since also increased, so that I had not writ∣ten now, if I had been sure to have been better able to write next week, which I have not much appearance of: yet there was committed to my disposition (that is, left at my house in my absence) a Letter from Sir  but it was some hours after all possibility of sending it by the carrier, so that Mr.  giving me the ho∣nour of a visite at that time, and being in∣stantly to depart, for your parts, did me the favour to undertake the delivery of it to you. With me, Sir, it is thus, there is not one person (besides my self) in my house well. I have already lost half a child, and with that mischance of hers, my wife fallen into an indisposition, which would afflict her much, but that the sicknesse of her chil∣dren stupefies her: of one of which, in good faith, I have not much hope. This meets a fortune so ill provided for physique and such relief, that if God should ease us with burialls, I know not well how to per∣forme even that. I flatter my self in this,

that I am dying too: nor can I truly dye fa∣ster, by any waste, then by losse of children. But Sir, I will mingle no more of my sad∣ness to you, but wil a little recompense it, by telling you that my L.  of whom a few days since they were doubtfull, is so well recovered that now they know all his disease to be the Pox, and Measels mingled. This I heard yesterday: for I have not been there yet. I came as near importunity as I could, for an answer from Essex house, but this was all, that he should see you shortly himselfe.

Your servant
J. Donne.
I cannot tell you so much, as you tell me, of anything from my Lord of  since the Epithalamion, for I heard nothing.

