
Page  100To my very true and very good friend Sir Henry Goodere.

SIR,
AT some later reading, I was more af∣fected with that part of your Letter, which is of the book, and the namelesse Letters, then at first. I am not sorry, for that affection were for a jealousie or suspici∣on of a flexibilty in you. But I am angry, that any should think, you had in your Re∣ligion peccant humours, defective, or abundant, or that such a booke, (if I mistake it not) should be able to work upon you; my comfort is, that their judg∣ment is too weak to endanger you, since by this it confesses, that it mistakes you, in thinking you irresolved or various: yet let me be bold to fear, that that sound true opi∣nion, that in all Christian professions there is way to salvation (which I think you think) may have been so incommodiously or intempestively sometimes uttered by you; or else your having friends equally
Page  101
near you of all the impressions of Religion, may have testified such an indifferency, as hath occasioned some to further such incli∣nations, as they have mistaken to be in you. This I have feared, because hertofore the in∣obedient Puritans, and now the over-obe∣dient Papists attempt you. It hath hurt ve∣ry many, not in their conscience, nor ends, but in their reputation, and ways, that o∣thers have thought them fit to be wrought upon. As some bodies are as wholesomly nourished as ours, with Akornes, and en∣dure nakednesse, both which would be dangerous to us, if we for them should leave our former habits, though theirs were the Primitive diet and custome: so are many souls well fed with such formes, and dres∣sings of Religion, as would distemper and misbecome us, and make us corrupt to∣wards God, if any humane circumstance moved it, and in the opinion of men, though none. You shall seldome see a Coyne, upon which the stamp were re∣moved, though to imprint it better, but it
Page  102
looks awry and squint. And so, for the most part, do mindes which have received divers impressions. I will not, nor need to you, compare the Religions. The channels of Gods mercies run through both fields; and they are sister teats of his graces, yet both diseased and infected, but not both alike. And I think, that as Copernicisme in the Ma∣thematiques hath carried earth farther up, from the stupid Center; and yet not ho∣noured it, nor advantaged it, because for the necessity of appearances, it hath carried heaven so much higher from it: so the Roman profession seems to exhale, and refine our wills from earthly Drugs, and Lees, more then the Reformed, and so seems to bring us nearer heaven; but then that carries heaven farther from us, by making us pass so many Courts, and Offices of Saints in this life, in all our petitions, and lying in a painfull prison in the next, during the plea∣sure, not of him to whom we go, and who must be our Judge, but of them from whom we come, who know not our case.
Page  103
Sir, as I said last time, labour to keep your alacrity and dignity, in an even temper: for in a dark sadnesse, indifferent things seem abominable, or necessary, being nei∣ther; as trees, and sheep to melancholique night-walkers have unproper shapes. And when you descend to satisfie all men in your own religion, or to excuse others to al; you prostitute your self and your under∣standing, though not a prey, yet a mark, and a hope, and a subject, for every sophi∣ster in Religion to work on. For the other part of your Letter, spent in the praise of the Countesse, I am always very apt to be∣leeve it of her, and can never beleeve it so well, and so reasonably, as now, when it is averred by you; but for the expressing it to her, in that sort as you seem to coun∣saile, I have these two reasons to decline it. That that knowledge which she hath of me, was in the beginning of a graver course, then of a Poet, into which (that I may al∣so keep my dignity) I would not seem to relapse. The Spanish proverb informes
Page  104
me, that he is a fool which cannot make one Sonnet, and he is mad which makes two. The other stronger reason, is my in∣tegrity to the other Countesse, of whose worthinesse though I swallowed your opi∣nion at first upon your words, yet I have had since an explicit faith, and now a knowledge: and for her delight (since she descends to them) I had reserved not only all the verses, which I should make, but all the thoughts of womens worthinesse. But because I hope she will not disdain, that I should write well of her Picture, I have o∣beyed you thus far, as to write: but intreat you by your friendship, that by this occasi∣on of versifying, I be not traduced, nor esteemed light in that Tribe, and that house where I have lived. If those reasons which moved you to bid me write be not con∣stant in you still, or if you meant not that I should write verses; or if these verses be too bad, or too good, over or under her under∣standing, and not fit; I pray receive them, as a companion and supplement of this
Page  105
Letter to you; and as such a token as I use to send, which use, because I wish rather they should serve (except you wish other∣wise) I send no other; but after I have told you, that here at a Christning at Peckam, you are remembred by divers of ours, and I commanded to tell you so, I kisse your hands, and so seal to you my pure love, which I would not refuse to do by any la∣bour or danger.
Your very true friend and servant
J. Donne.
