
Page  187To my much honoured friend Sr T. Lucy.

SIR,
I Have scarce had at any time any thing so like news to write to you, as that I am at this Town; we came from Spâ with so much resolution of passing by Holland. But at Mastricht we found that the lownesse, and slacknesse of the River, would incommo∣date us so much, as we charged our whole gests, and came hither by Land. In the way at Lovaine we met the E. of Arondel, to re∣compense the losse wee had of mis∣sing my L. Chandis and his company, who came to Spâ within a few hours after we came away. Sir Ed. Conaway, by occasion of his bodies indisposition, was gone home before: he told me he had some hope of you about Bartholomewtide: But because I half understood by a Letter from you, that you were determined upon the Countrie till Michaelmas, I am not so earnest in ende∣vouring to prolong our stay in these parts, as otherwise I should. If I could joine with
Page  188
him in that hope of seeing you on this side the water; and if you should hold that pur∣pose of comming at that time, I should re∣pent extremely my laying of our journies; for (if we should by miracle hold any reso∣lution) we should be in England about that time, so that I might misse you both here, and there. Sir, our greatest businesse is more in our power then the least, and we may be surer to meet in heaven then in any place upon earth; and whilst we are distant here, we may meet as often as we list in Gods presence, by soliciting in our prayers for one another. I received 4 Letters from you at Spâ by long circuits. In the last, one from my L. Dorset: I, who had a consci∣ence of mine own unworthinesse of any fa∣vour from him, could not chuse but present my thanks for the least. I do not therefore repent my forwardnesse in that office; and I beseech you not to repent your part therein. Since we came to this Town, there arrived an Extraordinary from Spain, with a recon∣firmation of the D. d'Aumals Pension, which
Page  189
is thereby 2400l a year, & he brings the title of Count, to Rodrigo de Calderon, who from a very low place, having grown to be Se∣cretary to Lerma, is now Ambassador here, and in great opinion of wisdome: They say yet he goes to Prague with the Marquis Spinola, and the G. Buquoy, to congratulate the Emperour: but we all conclude here, that persons of such quality, being great in matter of Warre, are not sent for so small an emploiment: we beleeve certainly, that they deliberate a Warre, and that the redu∣ction of Aix being not worthy this dili∣gence, their intentions must be upon Cleve, for the new Town which the two Prin∣ces make by Collen, despites them much. The Elector of Ments hath lately been here, upon pretence of comming in devotion to Sichem, and shortly the Electors of Colein and Saxony are to be here severally: all concurs to a disposition of such a Warre, and the Landsgrave of Hasse (who is as yet in the Union) is much solicited and caressed by this party, and I doubt, will prove a frail
Page  190
and corruptible man. I durst think confi∣dently, that they will at least proceed so far towards a Warre, as to try how France will dispose it self in the businesse: for it is con∣ceived that the D. of Bovillon brought to our K. good assurances from the Qu. Re∣gent, that she would pursue all her hus∣bands purposes in advancing the designes of those Princes who are in possession of Cleve, and in the Union. If she declare her self to do so, when they stirre, they are like to divert their purposes; but if she stand but neutrall (as it is likely, considering how Spanish the Court is at this time) I see not that the Princes of the Union are much likely to retard them. Sir, you see what un∣concerning things I am fain to write of, lest I should write of my self, who am so little a history or tale, that I should not hold out to make a Letter long enough to send over a Sea to you; for I should dispatch my self in this one word that I am

Your affectionate servant and lover
J. Donne.
Aug. 16. here. 1612.

