
To my worthy friend G. K.

SIR,
I Receive this heare that I begin this re∣turn, your Letter by a servant of Sir G. Greseley, by whom also I hasten this dis∣patch. This needs no enlargement since it hath the honour to convey one from M. Gherard. But though by telling me, it was a bold letter, I had leave to open it, and that I have a little itch to make some animad∣versions
Page  180
& Criticismes upon it (as that there is a ciphar too much in the sum of the Kings debts, and such like) yet since my eyes do easily fall back to their distemper, and that I am this night to sup at Sir A•. Ingrams, I had rather forfeit their little strength at his supper, then with writing such imperti∣nencies: the best spending them, is upon the rest of your Letter, to which, Sir, I can only say in generall, that some appearances have been here, of some treatise concer∣ning this Nullity, which are said to proceed from Geneva; but are beleeved to have been done within doors, by encourage∣ments of some whose names I will not commit to this letter. My poor study ha∣ving lyen that way, it may prove possible, that my weak assistance may be of use in this matter, in a more serious fashion, then an Epithalamion. This made me therefore abstinent in that kinde; yet by my troth, I think I shall not scape. I deprehend in my self more then an alacrity, a vehe∣mency to do service to that company; and
Page  181
so, I may finde reason to make rime. If it be done, I see not how I can admit that circuit of sending them to you, to be sent hither; that seems a kinde of praying to Saints, to whom God must tell first, that such a man prays to them to pray to him. So that I shall lose the honour of that conveyance; but, for recompense, you shall scape the danger of approving it. My next Letter shall say more of this. This shall end with deli∣vering you the remembrance of my Lady Bartlet, who is present at the sealing hereof,

Your very true and affectionate servant
J. Donne.
Jan. 19.
Which name when there is any empty corner in your discourse with that noble La∣dy at Ashby, I humbly beseech you to pre∣sent to her as one more devoted to her service then perchance you will say.

