
To Sir 

SIR,
I Have the honour of your Letter, which, I am almost sorry to have received: some few daies before the receit thereof D.  who accompanied my L,  to  to dinner, shewed me a Letter from you, from which I conceived good hopes that your businesses being devolved into the hands of the Treasurer, had been in much more for∣wardnesse, then by your Letter to me they appear to be. I beseech God establish them, and hasten them, and with them, or with∣out them, as he sees most conducible to his purpose upon you, continue in you a rely∣ing upon him, and a satisfaction in his waies. I know not whether any Letter from your son, or any other report, may have given you any mention of me; he writ to me from the  that he was un∣der a trifling arrest, and that 3l and some little more would discharge him. I sent my man with that money, but bid him see it

emploied for his discharge: he found more actions, and returned. Next day he writ to me that 8l would discharge him, and that Mr  would lay down half. But Mr  and I speaking together, thought it the fittest way, to respite all, till, in a few daies, by his writing to you, we might be directed therein; and in the mean time, took order with the Keeper to accommo∣date him, and I bade my man  as from himself, to serve his present want with somethings. Since we told him, that we would attend a return of his Letter to you, I heard no more of him, but I hear he is out. Whosoever serves you with relati∣ons from this Town, I am sure prevents me of all I can say. The Palatinate is abso∣lutely lost; for before this Letter come to you, we make account that  and  is lost, and  distressed.  came to  and  to  with great losses on both sides, but equall. The P. of  is but now come to  and with him, all that he is able

to make, even out of the Garrisons of their Towns. The ways of victuall to  Army, are almost all precluded by him, and he likely to put upon the raising of  between whom and the Town, there are hotter disputes, then ever our times saw. The Secretary of the States here shew∣ed me a Letter yesternight, that the Town spends 6000 pound of powder a day, and hath spent since the siege 250m pounds.  Regiment and my L.  are so dimi∣nished by commings a way, as that both (I think) make not now in Muster above 600. Mr  is returning to  but of his Ne∣gotiation I dare say nothing by a Letter of adventure. The direction which his Maty gave for Preachers, had scandalized many; therefore he descended to pursue them with certain reasons of his proceedings therein; and I had commandment to publish them in a Sermon at the Crosse, to as great a Congregation as ever I saw together, where they received comfortable assurance of his Maties constancy in Religion, and of his de∣sire

that all men should be bred in the knowledge of such things, as might pre∣serve them from the superstition of  I presume it is but a little while before we shall see you here, but that little time is likely to produce many things greatly con∣siderable. Present, I pray, my thankfull services to your good daughters. I can give them no better a room in my pray∣ers, and wishes, then my poore  hath, and they have that; so have you Sir, with
Your very true friend and servant in Chr. Jes.
J. Donne.
