
To Sir 

SIR,
BEtween the time of making up my o∣ther Letters, and the hour that your man limited me to call for them, came to my house an other pacquet directed to him: for by this time, the carrier is as wise, as his horse, to go to the house that he hath used to go. I found liberty in the super∣scription to open, and so I did; but for that part which concerns him, I must attend his comming hither, for I know not where to seek him; and besides, I have enough to say for that part which concerns my self. Sir, even in the Letter it self to me, I deprehend much inclination, to chide me: and it is but out of your habit of good language that you spare me. So little occasion as that postscript of mine, could not bring you so near to it, if nothing else were mistaken, which (so God help me) was so little, that I remember not what it was, and I would no more hear again what I write in an

officious Letter, then what I said at a drun∣ken supper. I had no purpose to exercise your diligence in presenting my name to that Lady, but either I did, or should have said, that I writ onely to fill up any empty corner in your discourse. So, Sir, the rea∣ding of the Letter, was a kinde of travell to me, but when I came to the paper inclosed, I was brought to bed of a monster. To ex∣presse my self vehemently quickly, I must say, that I can scarce think, that you have read M.  letter rightly, therefore I send you back your own again. I will not protest against my beingsuch a knave, for no man shall have that from me, if he expect it: but I will protest against my being such a fool, as to depose any thing in him with hope of locking it up, and against that low∣nesse, of seeking reputation by so poor a way. I am not so sorry, that I am a narrow man, as that for all the narrownesse, you have not seen through me yet, nor known me perfectly; for I might think by this, (if I had not other testimony) that I have been

little in your contemplation. Sixteen letters from M.  could not (I think) per∣swade a  Jury of so much disho∣nesty in
Your true servant
J. Donne.
