

 H. G.
SIR,
NAture hath made all bodies alike, by mingling and kneading up the same elements in every one. And amongst men, the other nature, Custome, hath made every minde like some other; we are patterns, or copies, we informe, or imitate. But as he hath not presently attained to write a good hand, which hath equalled one excellent Master in his  another in his  much lesse he which hath sought all the excellent Masters, and imployed all his time to ex∣ceed in one Letter, because not so much an excellency of any, nor every one, as an even∣nesse and proportion, and respect to one

another gives the perfection: so is no man vertuous by particular example. Not he that doth all actions to the pattern of the most valiant, or liberall, which Histories afford: nor he which chuses from every one their best actions, and thereupon doth something like those. Perchance such may be  which Divines al∣low to Monasticall life, but not  which by them is only due to Prelacy. For vertue is even, and continuall, and the same, and can therefore break no where, nor ad∣mit ends, nor beginnings: it is not only not broken, but not tyed together. He is not vertuous, out of whose actions you can pick an excellent one. Vice and her fruits may be feen, because they are thick bodies, but not vertue, which is all light; and vices have swellings and fits, and noise, because being extreams, they dwell far asunder, and they maintain both a forein war against vertue, and a civill against one another, and affect Soveraignty, as vertue doth society. The later Physitians say, that when our

naturall inborn preservative is corrupted or wasted, and must be restored by a like ex∣tracted from other bodies; the chief care is that the Mummy have in it no excelling quality, but an equally digested temper: And such is true vertue. But men who have preferred money before all, think they deal honourably with vertue, if they com∣pare her with money: And think that as money is not called base, till the allay exceed the pure; so they are vertuous enough, if they have enough to make their actionscur∣rant, which is, if either they get praise, or (in a lower abasing) if they incurre not infamy or penalty. But you know who said,  which rule being given for positive Laws, severe mistakers apply even to Gods Law, and (perchance against his Command∣ment) binde themselves to his Counsails, beyond his Laws. But they are worse, that thinke that because some men formerly wastfull, live better with half their rents then they did with all, being now advanta∣ged

with discretion and experience, there∣fore our times need lesse moral vertue then the first, because we have Christianity, which is the use and application of all ver∣tue: as though our religion were but an art of thrift, to make a little vertue go far. For as plentifull springs are fittest, and best be∣come large Aqueducts, so doth much vertue such asteward and officer as a Christian. But I must not give you a Homily for a Letter. I said a great while since, that custome made men like; we who have been accustomed to one another are like in this, that we love not businesse: this therefore shall not be to you nor me a busie Letter. I end with a probleme, whose errand is, to aske for his fellowes. I pray before you ingulfe your self in the progresse, leave them for me, and such other of my papers as you will lend me till you return. And besides this Alle∣goricall lending, lend me truely your coun∣sails, and love God and me, whilest I love him and you.
