
To the Right Honourable Sir  at Court.
SIR,
I Was this morning at your door, some∣what early; and I am put into such a distaste of my last Sermon, as that I dare not practise any part of it, and therefore though I said then, that we are bound to

speake aloud, though we awaken men, and make them froward, yet after two or three modest knocks at the door, I went away. Yet I understood after, the King was gone abroad, and thought you might be gone with him. I came to give you an account of that, which this does as well. I have now put into my Lord of  and  hands the Sermon faithfully exscrci∣bed. I beseech you be pleased to hearken far∣ther after it; I am still upon my jealousie, that the King brought thither some disasfecti∣on towards me, grounded upon some o∣ther demerit of mine, and took it not from the Sermon. For, as Card.  writ a Book  I have cribrated, and re-cribated, and post-cribated the Ser∣mon, and must necessarily say, the King who hath let fall his eye upon some of my Poems, never saw, of mine, a hand, or an eye, or an affection, set down with so much study, and diligence, and labour of syllables, as in this Sermon I expressed those two points, which I take so much to conduce

to his service, the imprinting of persuasi∣bility and obedience in the subject, And the breaking of the bed of whisperers, by casting in a bone, of making them suspect and distrust one another. I remember I heard the old King say of a good Sermon, that he thought the Preacher never had thought of his Sermon, till he spoke it; it seemed to him negligently and extemporal∣ly spoken. And I knew that he had weigh∣ed every syllable, for halfe a year before, which made me conclude, that the King had before, some prejudice upon him. So, the best of my hope is, that some over bold allusions, or expressions in the way, might divert his Majesty, from vouchsafing to ob∣serve the frame, and purpose of the Sermon. When he sees the generall scope, I hope his goodnesse will pardon collaterall escapes. I intreated the B. to aske his Majesty, whe∣ther his displeasure extended so farre, as that I should forbear waiting, and appearing in his presence; and I had a return, that I might come. Till I had that, I would not

offer to put my self under your roof. To day I come, for that purpose, to say prayers. And if, in any degree, my health suffer it, I shall do so, to morrow. If any thing fall in∣to your observation before that, (because the B. is likely to speake to the King of it, perchance, this night) if it amount to such an increase of displeasure, as that it might be unfit for me to appear, I beseech you afford me the knowledge. Otherwise, I am likely to inquire of you personally, to morrow before nine in the morning, and to put into your presence then

Your very humble and very true, and very honest servant to God and the King and you
J. Donne.
I writ yesterday to my L. Duke, by my L.  who assured me of a gracious ac∣ceptation of my putting my self in his pro∣tection.

