
To my honoured friend  Esquire.
SIR,
NEither your Letters, nor silence, needs excuse; your friendship is to me an abundant possession, though you remem∣ber me but twice in a year: He that could have two harvests in that time, might just∣ly value his land at a high rate; but, Sir, as we doe not onely then thank our land,

when we gather the fruit, but acknowledge that all the year she doth many motherly offices in preparing it: so is not friendship then onely to be esteemed, when she is de∣livered of a Letter, or any other reall office, but in her continuall propensnesse and in∣clination to do it. This hath made me casie in pardoning my long silences, and in promising my self your forgivenesse for not answering your Letter sooner. For my pur∣pose of proceeding in the profession of the law, so farre as to a title you may be pleased to correct that imagination, wheresoever you finde it. I ever thought the study of it my best entertainment, and pastime, but I have no ambition, nor designe upon the style. Of my Anniversaries, the fault that I acknowledge in my self, is to have descen∣ded to print any thing in verse, which though it have excuse even in our times, by men who professe, and practise much gra∣vitie; yet I confesse I wonder how I de∣clined to it, and do not pardon my self: But for the other part of the imputation of having

said too much, my defēce is, that my purpose was to say as well as I could: for since I never saw the Gentlewoman, I cannot be under∣stood to have bound my self to have spoken just truths, but I would not be thought to have gone about to praise her, or any other in rime; except I took such a person, as might be capable of all that I could say. If any of those Ladies think that Mistris  was not so, let that Lady make her self fit for all those praises in the book, and they shall be hers. Sir, this messenger makes so much haste that I cry you mercy for spending any time of this letter in other imployment then thanking you for yours. I hope before  to see  and kisse your hand, which shall ever, (if it dis∣dain not that office) hold all the keyes of the libertie and affection, and all the facul∣ties of

Your most affectionate servant,
J. D.
the 14 of Aprill, here, 1612.

