
SIR,
THis advantage you, and my other friends have, by my frequent Fevers, that I am so much the oftener at the gates

of heaven, and this advantage by the soli∣tude and close imprisonment that they re∣duce me to after, that I am thereby the ofte∣ner at my prayers; in which, I shall never leave out your happinesse; and, I doubt not, but amongst his many other blessings, God will adde to you some one for my prayers. A man would almost be content to dye, (if there were no other benefit in death) to hear of so much sorrow, and so much good testimony from good men, as I, (God be blessed for it) did upon the re∣port of my death. Yet, I perceive it went not through all; for, one writ unto me, that some (and he said of my friends) conceived, that I was not so ill, as I pretended, but withdrew my self, to save charges, and to live at ease, discharged of preaching. It is an unfriendly, and God knows, an ill grounded interpretation: for in these times of necessity, and multitudes of poor there is no possibility of saving to him that hath any tendernesse in him; and for af∣fecting my ease, I have been always more

sorry, when I could not preach, then any could be, that they could not hear me. It hath been my desire, (and God may be pleased to grant it me) that I might die in the Pulpit; if not that, yet that I might take my death in the Pulpit, that is, die the sooner by occasion of my former labours. I thanke you, for keeping our  in in your memory, I hope God reserves it for so good a friend as you are, to send me the first good newes of him. For the Dia∣mond Lady, you may safely deliver  whatsoever belongs to me, and he will give you a discharge for the money. For my L.  we shall speake of it, when we meet at  which, as I do not much hope before Christmas, so I do not much fear at beginning of Tearm; for I have intreated one of my fellowes to preach to my Lord Maior, at  upon Christ∣mas day, and reserved Candlemas day to my self for that service, about which time also, will fall my Lent Sermon, except my Lord Chamberlaine beleeve me to be

dead, and leave me out; for as long as I live, and am not speechlesse, I would not decline that service. I have better lea∣sure to write, then you to read, yet I will not oppresse you with too much letter, God blesse you, and your sonne, as
Your poor friend and humble servant in Christ Jesus
J. Donne.
